There's a Linux command that shows you exactly what any running process is doing
Menu
Sign in now
Close
PC & Mobile
Submenu
Windows2
Linux
Android
Apple
Technical
Submenu
Tech Explained
Security
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Internet
Creative
Screen
Submenu
Entertainment
Streaming
Home
Submenu
Smart Home
Home
News
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu

                                    Follow
                                

                                            Followed
                                    
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Productivity
Android
Smart TVs
Networking
Windows 11
Entertainment
Close
There's a Linux command that shows you exactly what any running process is doing
Afam Onyimadu / MUO
By 
Afam Onyimadu
Published
 Apr 25, 2026, 6:00 PM EDT
Afam's experience in tech publishing dates back to 2018, when he worked for Make Tech Easier. Over the years, he has built a reputation for publishing high-quality guides, reviews, tips, and explainer articles, covering Windows, Linux, and open source tools. His work has been featured on top websites, including Technical Ustad, Windows Report, Guiding Tech, Alphr, and Next of Windows.

He holds a first degree in Computer Science and is a strong advocate for data privacy and security, with several tips, videos, and tutorials on the subject published on the Fuzo Tech YouTube channel.

When he is not working, he loves to spend time with his family, cycling, or tending to his garden.  
Sign in to your 
MakeUseOf
 account
Add Us On
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow

                                    Follow
                            
followed

                                    Followed
                            
Like

                            Like
                                

								Thread
																						
Log in

							Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
						
Try something different:
							

									Show me the facts
								

									Explain it like I’m 5
								

									Give me a lighthearted recap
								
I have noticed from experience that when my Linux programs fail, it's often a subtle event that can leave you confused or unsure of what actually went wrong. When I have fallen back to top, htop, or 
even the more preferred iotop
, the best I get is data relating to CPU and memory usage, with no real insight into what the failing process is actually doing.
✕
 Remove Ads
At such times, it's not enough to know that something is wrong. I usually want to see why. The strace -p command has made a real difference. Once I attach it to a running process, it shows every call that process makes.

                        See what a process is doing in real time
               

            Attaching strace and reading the first lines of output
    
If you really need to understand 
strace
, you just have to use it. 
It's an observability tool, but quite different from inotifywait
. Attach it to a running process using this format: 
sudo strace -p 
. And if you don't have the PID, any of the commands below will help you find it. I use Firefox in the examples:
pidof firefox
pgrep -a firefox
ps aux | grep firefox
The strace -p command almost instantly starts to produce results, and running it on an actual Firefox process can produce this result:
epoll_wait(5, [], 1024, 999) = 0
futex(0x7f3a2c0, FUTEX_WAIT, 1, NULL) = 0
openat(AT_FDCWD, "/proc/self/maps", O_RDONLY) = 7
read(7, "...", 4096) = 4096
Each line shows a call name first, then its arguments, and finally a return value. The lines represent requests Firefox makes to the kernel. From the above result, here's what I deduce:

                                        epoll_wait(...) = 0: The process is waiting for an event, but nothing has arrived.
                        

                                        futex(...) = 0: The process is coordinating between threads.
                        

                                        openat(...) = 7: After the process opened a file, it got file descriptor 7 back.
                        

                                        read(...) = 4096: The process read 4096 bytes from that file.
                        
✕
 Remove Ads
If your output is constantly changing, it tells you that the process is active. Error returns such as ENOENT or EACCES indicate file errors; repeated epoll_wait or poll calls with no progress indicate the process is idle and waiting. After examining the process, using
 Ctrl + C
 will cleanly detach strace.
Add the -f flag to get results from threads and child processes. This can be useful for monitoring browsers and package managers.

                        What strace is actually showing you
               

            Understanding syscalls without getting lost in theory
    
Afam Onyimadu / MUO
 A program's actions typically go through the kernel. These can include file opening, network requests, or memory allocation. Since the program cannot perform these tasks directly, it must make system calls that allow the kernel to execute them.
strace can print all these calls because it operates between the application and the kernel. Its position makes it accurate. Rather than inferring, it's showing you exactly how the program asks the system to execute an action. Major categories often look like this:
Category
Common syscalls
What you're seeing
File I/O
openat, read, write
App reading or writing configuration files
Network
connect, recvfrom, sendto
App communicating with a server or socket
Process
clone, execve
App spawning subprocesses
Memory
mmap, brk
App allocating or releasing memory
Waiting
poll, epoll_wait, select
App idle, waiting for an external event
Thread sync
futex
Threads coordinating with each other
✕
 Remove Ads
strace doesn't show source code or application logic, but these aren't always the defining elements for finding what's broken. It shows what a program does at the system level, which can be more significant for troubleshooting what's broken.
It uses ptrace, which is similar to the mechanism 
gdb
 and other debuggers use, and sometimes requires sudo to run
.
Related

			Linux has a built-in crash recovery trick, and more people should use it
		
Make your Linux system reboot itself and fix crashes automatically. 
Posts
By 
Afam Onyimadu
Apr 19, 2026

                        Making strace output useful
               

            Filtering noise so the problem becomes obvious
    
Afam Onyimadu / MUO
 If the process is busy, you may not be able to read the raw strace output because of how fast it moves. Narrowing results down even before they appear on the screen will help. You can achieve this either by using the built-in category filters or by piping to grep. The exact option to go with depends on the specific problem.
Here are a few examples:
File issue — app can't find or open something:
 strace -p 
 -e trace=file 2>&1 | grep "openat\|ENOENT"
In this case, I include 2>&1 because it redirects stderr to stdout, so the pipe sees strace output. It gives the pipe something to work with and exposes only file-related calls, ensuring failed open attempts get immediately surfaced by ENOENT (file not found).
Network issue — app failing to connect:
strace -p 
 -e trace=network 2>&1 | grep "connect\|ECONNREFUSED\|ETIMEDOUT"
The above command reveals the exact ports and hosts the app targets. It indicates if requests are being refused or timing out.
✕
 Remove Ads
Stuck app — figuring out why nothing is happening:

                    Subscribe for hands-on system debugging tips
                
Joining the newsletter offers focused coverage of system-level debugging tools, practical command patterns, and real-world troubleshooting examples so you can apply techniques like strace with confidence. Subscribe to keep building these focused skills.
Get Updates
By subscribing, you agree to receive newsletter and marketing emails, and accept our 
Terms of Use
 and 
Privacy Policy
. You can unsubscribe anytime.
strace -p 
 2>&1 | grep "futex\|poll\|epoll_wait\|nanosleep"
Without strace, processes blocked on epoll_wait and those blocked on a futex timeout can appear identical to other tools. However, none of these is the same as crashing.
With different patterns, you should know what to look for. The guide below will help:
Output pattern
What it means
ENOENT on openat
File or path doesn't exist
EACCES on openat
File exists but process lacks read permission
ECONNREFUSED on connect
Target port is closed or service isn't running
ETIMEDOUT on connect
Host is unreachable or firewall is dropping packets
epoll_wait / poll with no return
Process is idle, waiting on I/O or a client
futex blocking for a long time
Thread is waiting on a lock held by another thread
read(0, ...) with no return
Process is waiting on stdin—it needs user input

            What I found when I attached strace to real apps
    
The first app I attached strace to was Firefox, and it showed a continuous cycle of epoll_wait, futex, and openat on /proc/self/maps. This indicated constant internal-state checks between wake and sleep. Without strace, it would be hard to believe that an idle browser can still issue several syscalls per second.
Attaching strace to apt showed me a lot about what happens mid-install. By including the -f flag, I could see each subprocess appear as a new PID. It was an interesting process: the parent spawns a child via execve, the child writes to /var/lib/dpkg/, and the next subprocess starts. My package install suddenly became a visible chain of steps.
✕
 Remove Ads
After weeks of using strace, I would recommend it for diagnosing hangs, file errors, and network failures. However, because it adds overhead, it's not ideal for production monitoring. 
I use it alongside common troubleshooting tools
, though it's not suitable for continuous production monitoring due to overhead.

				Linux Mint
			
OS

									
										
											Linux

										
																	
Minimum CPU Specs

									
										
											64-bit Single-core

										
																	
Minimum RAM Specs

									
										
											1.5 GB

										
																	
Linux Mint is a popular, free, and open-source operating system for desktops and laptops. It is user-friendly, stable, and functional out of the box.
See at Linux Mint
Expand
Collapse
Linux
Linux Commands
Troubleshooting

                                                                        Follow
                                                            

                                                            Followed
                                                    
Like
Share
Facebook
X
WhatsApp
Threads
Bluesky
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
✕
 Remove Ads

                                                    Technology Explained
                                            

                                                    PC & Mobile
                                            

			Your SSD does not wipe your deleted files — this is what TRIM actually does
		
2 hours ago

			Wireless charging is finally worth using, but only if you know what to look for
		
3 hours ago

			CPU-Z shows more than PC specs if you know where to look
		
5 hours ago
See More

			I ran a Windows network reset and fixed problems I'd blamed on my router for months
		
4 hours ago

			I switched to Gentoo Linux and now I get why it's worth the headache
		
8 hours ago

			Windows has been hoarding old drivers on your SSD — here's how to clear them out
		
20 hours ago
See More
✕
 Remove Ads
Trending Now

			I found a Windows 11 log that shows exactly what's making my PC slow — and most people don't know it exists
		

			Your NVMe SSD might be running at half speed because of this BIOS setting
		

			I stopped using LM Studio once I found this open-source alternative
		

                                                
                
                                                    
                                    Thread
                                                    
Sign in to your 
MakeUseOf
 account
We want to hear from you. Share your perspective in the comments below, and please keep the conversation respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)

                                    Please respect our 
community guidelines
. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
                                
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This space is open for discussion.
Be the first to share your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
✕
 Remove Ads
Recommended
Apr 24, 2026

                                    GPT-5.5 beats Claude at the one task that actually matters
                            
Apr 23, 2026

                                    I ran a DNS speed test and Google's 8.8.8.8 wasn't even in the top two
                            
Apr 22, 2026

                                    I replaced Google's search bar with Samsung Finder and I'm never going back
                            
Apr 22, 2026

                                    5 USB-C tricks that feel wrong until you try them
                            
✕
 Remove Ads
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Media Coverage
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
MakeUseOf
 is part of the
                            
Valnet Publishing Group

                Copyright © 2026 Valnet Inc.
            
✕
✕
Visit
Now Playing
WATCH
NEXT
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Unmute
Current Time 
0:00
/
Duration 
-:-
Loaded
: 
0%
Stream Type 
LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind live
LIVE
Remaining Time 
-
0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off
, selected
Captions
captions off
, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-Picture
Fullscreen
This is a modal window.
Skip Ad
5