Manage Proxmox Like Kubernetes? This CLI Tool Makes It Possible - Virtualization Howto
Skip to content
YouTube
Twitter
LinkedIn
GitHub
Facebook
Discord
Pinterest
Virtualization Howto
Virtualization, Cloud, DevOps, Reviews
Search for:
Subscribe
Forum
My kits
Home Lab NAS Kits
Intel Optane Swap Kit
VMware Compatible Mini PCs
Podcast
DevOps
Virtualization
Proxmox
VMware
Hyper-V
XCP-ng
Containers
Kubernetes
Mini PC & Server
Home Lab
My Home Lab
Nested ESXi Lab
Proxmox Build 2025
About
Contact
Disclaimer
E-books
Privacy
Newsletter
3
Home
2026
March
Manage Proxmox Like Kubernetes? This CLI Tool Makes It Possible
Manage Proxmox Like Kubernetes? This CLI Tool Makes It Possible
March 25, 2026
March 25, 2026
by Brandon Lee
If you have spent any amount of time working with Proxmox, you are probably super familiar with the web interface. The default web interface is clean and gives you good visibility, and everything feels pretty intuitive. But as your environment grows, the web UI doesn’t scale very well. You will find yourself clicking through menus. Jumping between nodes. Trying to 
keep track
 of what is running where. And if you are doing anything at scale or trying to automate, then the UI actually becomes a bit of a blocker. This is where I have found things. At the same time, I have been spending more time around Kubernetes. And one of the biggest mindset shifts with Kubernetes is how much you rely on the CLI. That is when I came across a tool called 
cv4pve-cli
, and it completely changed how I think about managing my 
Proxmox clusters
 from the command line. Let’s see what this Proxmox CLI tool is and how to use it.
The problem with managing Proxmox at scale with only a GUI
Proxmox UI management is great when you are managing a handful of VMs 
when you access your home lab
. Even a small cluster feels very manageable through the UI. But once you start scaling out and you need to perform the same actions over and over again with clicks, this can get to be a bit of a hassle.
Proxmox ve server web ui
You may say, doesn’t Proxmox have built-in CLI tools? Yes it does, but the built-int CLI tools are a bit fragmented. You have commands like 
qm
 for virtual machines, 
pct
 for containers, and 
pvesh 
for API access. Each one has its own syntax and way of doing things. There is no single command and unified way to query things in your environment.
This all means that automation becomes harder than it should be in Proxmox. Yes, you can script things with bash or call the API directly or use things like Terraform and Ansible, but it takes effort to stitch everything together. It does not feel natural or consistent in every use case.
This is where Kubernetes tooling like 
kubectl
 really shines. With kubectl, you can do things like list all resources, filter them, output JSON, pipe into other tools, and build workflows that feel seamless. You are interacting with your infrastructure in a consistent, predictable way. That is the experience that I have wanted with Proxmox. There is a tool that makes this experience very close.
What is cv4pve-cli?
cv4pve-cli
 is a command line tool that is designed to give you an uplift in how you interact with Proxmox. It gives us a much more unified and user friendly interface to the Proxmox API. So, instead of juggling multiple commands and different syntax, you can get a single CLI that allows you to do the following:
Query your Proxmox environment
List 
virtual machines and containers
Retrieve configuration details
Interact with clusters in a more structured way
Corsinvest cv4pve cli
Under the hood, it is leveraging the Proxmox API, but it wraps API calls in a way that feels much closer to modern CLI tools that you might already be familiar with. So, if you have ever used 
kubectl
, you will immediately notice the similarities in how you think about interacting with your environment. It’s not a one-for-one type of syntax with kubectl, but you will definitely notice the similarities with the workflow.
Also, this is made by the same company/developer that made the tool I recently covered as well which is an RVTools for Proxmox type tool that is great for those moving over to the PVE platform. Check out my blog post on that one here:
This Free Tool Feels Like RVTools for Proxmox (And It’s CLI-Based)
Corsinvest makes an rvtools for proxmox type tool
How to install the cv4pve-cli command
On the 
Github repo
, the developer has a simple script that will pull down the latest version programmatically so you don’t have to worry about grabbing the latest. It will pull it down, extract it and copy the binary to your /usr/local/bin folder.
LATEST_URL=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/Corsinvest/cv4pve-cli/releases/latest | grep browser_download_url | grep linux-x64 | cut -d '"' -f 4)
wget "$LATEST_URL" && unzip cv4pve-cli-linux-x64.zip
chmod +x cv4pve-cli
sudo mv cv4pve-cli /usr/local/bin/
Installing the cv4pve cli tool
Setting a “context” for the cv4pve-cli command
One of the other cool things that you can do with this tool is set a “context”. Think of this like a kubeconfig. You set the context to point to a specific Proxmox environment like you would a Kubernetes cluster.
You can see the syntax below, but it is the following:
cv4pve-cli config add homelab --host 192.168.1.100 --username root@pam --password P@$$w0rd1
Syntax to configure a context for cv4pve cli for your home lab
You can also 
skip certificate verification
 which will be what most will want to do:
cv4pve-cli config add dev --host 10.0.0.1 --port 8007 --username root@pam --password P@$$w0rd1 --validate-certificate false
Connected to the home lab context skipping certificate verification
Viewing multiple contexts you have configured
One of the great Kubernetes-like things that you can do with this tool is set “multiple contexts” or Proxmox environments that you have saved as connections. When you add multiple contexts as we have shown above, you can then list your contexts, using the command:
cv4pve-cli config list
Below, you can see the one that has the asterisk next to it is the default:
Viewing the contexts you have configured and which is active
Switching contexts with the cv4pve-cli tool
Below, you can see that we are switching the context with the command:
cv4pve-cli config use <context>
Then you can see I quickly followed it up by viewing the contexts and we now see the asterisk next to “homelab2”.
Switching contexts with the cv4pve cli tool to work with a different proxmox environment
Simple examples of using the cv4pve-cli utility
There are several great examples of how you can use the cv4pve-cli utility and do so easily. What I like is that it will return results to you for the entire cluster and not just a particular node. 
Below is getting information for a specific VM by the VM name:
cv4pve-cli show vm --guest <your vm name>
Getting information for a specific proxmox virtual machine with cv4pve cli
You can also get the VM status using the VM ID:
cv4pve-cli get vm status --guest 100
Getting vm status in proxmox with the cv4pve cli command using the vm id
Getting information about the Proxmox nodes
Very similar to the 
kubectl get nodes
 command, you can do something similar with the command:
cv4pve-cli api get /nodes --output text
Getting pve nodes information
There are built-in aliases that allow you to do a lot of really cool things very easily from the command line.
Alias
Arguments
Description
get guests
—
This will list all VMs and containers for the whole cluster
show guest
<node> <vmtype> <vmid>
Show guest configs for (VM or CT)
get guest status
<node> <vmtype> <vmid>
Show guest runtime status
do start guest
<node> <vmtype> <vmid>
Start a guest
do stop guest
<node> <vmtype> <vmid>
Stop a guest
do shutdown guest
<node> <vmtype> <vmid>
Shutdown a guest
do reboot guest
<node> <vmtype> <vmid>
Reboot a guest
do migrate guest
<node> <vmtype> <vmid> <target_node>
Migrate a guest to another node
get guest snapshots
<node> <vmtype> <vmid>
List snapshots
create guest snapshot
<node> <vmtype> <vmid> <snapname> <descr>
Create a snapshot
do rollback guest
<node> <vmtype> <vmid> <snapname>
Rollback to a snapshot
delete guest
<node> <vmtype> <vmid>
Destroy a guest (this is destructive and will result in data loss!)
Why this feels like managing Proxmox with kubectl
The biggest difference I think is not just the commands. It is the mindset. When you start using a tool like 
cv4pve-cli
, you start thinking more in terms of querying your environment instead of “Click Ops”.
For example, instead of asking questions like “which node is this VM on”? You start asking the question “how can I query all VMs and filter the results”? Instead of “let me click into each VM to see its status”, you think “how can I get a list of all VMs and their states in one command”? This is a subtle shift, but it is powerful. This allows you to:
Get faster visibility into your environment
Build scripts that automate common tasks
Combine commands with other CLI tools
Treat your infrastructure as something you can query programmatically like Kubernetes
Also the whole “contexts” mental model I think is powerful that allows you to manage your Proxmox environments in terms of contexts of different PVE hosts or clusters and allows a single command line or management workstation to span all of the environments you have.
Limitations of cv4pve-cli?
No tool is perfect though no matter how good they may be, and it is important to know where cv4pve-cli fits in and maybe where it isn’t the best fit. First, don’t think of this as a replacement for the Proxmox UI. The default Proxmox web UI is still super powerful for:
Visual management
Initial configuration
Quick troubleshooting
Advanced configurations
Second, there is a learning curve. If you are used to the UI, shifting to a CLI driven workflow takes some adjustment and time. I don’t think you should think of it being a “one or the other” type tool. Use it to complement your other management tools for Proxmox. But I do think for many day-to-day tasks, especially anything repetitive or automation related, this tool can save a lot of time compared to clicking around in the GUI of the Proxmox web UI.
Wrapping up
I think this is a really great Proxmox CLI tool that allows you to have the familiar workflows that we already have for 
Kubernetes clusters
 but have these for our Proxmox VE Servers and Clusters. With all the built-in aliases in the tool there is probably a command that will do what you want it to be able to do. Adding the cv4pve-cli command has definitely changed how I think about and interact with my 
Proxmox VE Server
 environment. It provides a fast way to get information and 
automate tasks
 from the command line. If you are running a Proxmox cluster and have started to feel the limits of managing everything through the UI with Click Ops, this is absolutely worth checking out. How about you? Have you used the cv4pve-cli command before? Does this seem like something you would like to check out?
Add as a preferred source on Google
Google is updating how articles are shown. Don’t miss our leading home lab and tech content, written by humans, by setting 
Virtualization Howto as a preferred source
.
About The Author
Brandon Lee
Brandon Lee is the Senior Writer, Engineer and owner at Virtualizationhowto.com, and a 7-time VMware vExpert, with over two decades of experience in Information Technology. Having worked for numerous Fortune 500 companies as well as in various industries, He has extensive experience in various IT segments and is a strong advocate for open source technologies. Brandon holds many industry certifications, loves the outdoors and spending time with family. Also, he goes through the effort of testing and troubleshooting issues, so you don't have to.
See author's posts
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Proxmox
Tagged 
proxmox
Post navigation
I Changed How I Access My Home Lab and This Fixed Everything
I Stopped Deploying Containers Manually. This Changed My Home Lab
Related Posts
Why Proxmox Wasn’t Reclaiming Storage Until I Fixed This Setting
Maybe you have been in this situation where you know you are deleting data inside your virtual machines running in Proxmox. You see the disk usage drop inside the guest…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Proxmox Swap Tweaks Guide! Dedicated drive, Swappiness, Page Cluster
I have been doing quite a bit of testing with Proxmox swap and Intel Optane drives for ultra fast swap storage. In doing so have learned quite a bit about…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
QEMU Guest Agent Installation in Proxmox VE
If you are running a Proxmox VE server in your home lab or production, there is a component that you will want to know and use with your guest virtual…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
0
0
votes
Article Rating
Subscribe
Connect with
 Login
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Notify of 
new follow-up comments
new replies to my comments
Label
Name*
Email*
Connect with
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Label
Name*
Email*
1
 Comment                    
Oldest
Newest
Most Voted
 Inline Feedbacks                    
View all comments

    Daniele Corsini


    1 month ago

Hi,

Actually I just released exactly that — cv4pve-report is the RVTools equivalent for Proxmox VE. It exports your entire infrastructure to a single navigable Excel file: nodes, VMs, containers, storages, users, firewall rules, backup jobs, resource pools, QEMU agent data and more. Every row is a hyperlink to the detail sheet.
https://github.com/Corsinvest/cv4pve-report
0
Reply
Proxmox Server Build Components
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Minisforum BD795M
RackChoice 2U Micro ATX Compact
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
Noctua NH-L9i-17xx, Low-Profile CPU Cooler
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Crucial 96GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Intel X520-DA2 10 GbE Network Adapter
Kingston 240GB Drive for Boot
Samsung 990 Pro 2TB
MX-4 Thermal Paste
Gaming/Proxmox Build 2025
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Thermaltake Tower 200
Minisforum BD790i X3D
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Arctic P12 Slim Fan
PNY NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5080 OC
Predator 1TB NVMe Boot Drive
Samsung 990 Pro 4TB – VM Storage
Copyright © 2026 
Virtualization Howto
wpDiscuz
Insert
%d