Linux May Drop Old Network Drivers Now That AI-Driven Bug Reports Are Causing A Burden - Phoronix
Articles & Reviews
News Archive
Forums
Premium Ad-Free
Contact
 Popular Categories
Close
Articles & Reviews
News Archive
Forums
Premium
Contact
 Categories
Computers
Display Drivers
Graphics Cards
Linux Gaming
Memory
Motherboards
Processors
Software
Storage
Operating Systems
Peripherals
Linux May Drop Old Network Drivers Now That AI-Driven Bug Reports Are Causing A Burden
Written by 
Michael Larabel
 in 
AI
 on 21 April 2026 at 03:45 PM EDT. 
65 Comments

Old network maintenance drivers are becoming a maintenance burden in the era of fuzzing and predominantly AI-driven bug detection causing an uptick in possible bug/security reports to upstream Linux kernel developers but with these drivers potentially having no actual users.

Linux is well known for maintaining old hardware support where it makes sense and doesn't pose a maintenance burden to the Linux kernel developers and they maintain some interest/support. But with AI-generated bug reports as well as fuzzing at large uncovering more code defects, Linux kernel developers either can ignore the AI-driven reporting or begin removing old drivers to avoid the excess reports for drivers where there are likely few to no one using an upstream kernel on old computer hardware relics.

Andrew Lunn sent out a patch series today to begin removing a number of ISA and PCMCIA era network drivers from the Linux kernel. He elaborates on the recent maintenance burden coming about due to AI/fuzzing:

"These old drivers have not been much of a Maintenance burden until recently. Now there are more newbies using AI and fuzzers finding issues, resulting in more work for Maintainers. Fixing these old drivers make little sense, if it is not clear they have users.

These are all ISA and PCMCIA Ethernet devices, mostly from the last century, a couple from 2001 or 2002. It seems unlikely they are still used. However, remove them one patch at a time so they can be brought back if somebody still has the hardware, runs modern kernels and wants to take up the roll of driver Maintainer."
This patch series
 drops old 3com, AMD, SMSC, Cirrus, Fujitsu, Xircom, and 8390 Ethernet drivers. In turn lightening the kernel by 27.6k lines of code -- and 27.6k less lines for AI coding agents to concern themselves with for no real benefit.

It will be interesting to see if other Linux kernel subsystems also begin removing their old drivers as well to avoid the influx of AI reporting.
65 Comments
Related News
The New Linux Kernel AI Bot Uncovering Bugs Is A Local LLM On Framework Desktop + AMD Ryzen AI Max
The Good & The Bad When Using LLMs To Write Spack Packages
Linux 7.0 Adds Support For New Keys On Upcoming Laptops For Expanded AI Agent Interactions
Hugging Face Contributes Safetensors To PyTorch Foundation To Secure AI Model Execution
Tiny Corp Begins Accepting Pre-Orders For Their $10M Exabox
Linux 7.0-rc7 Adding More Documentation For AI Tools To Send Better Security Bug Reports
About The Author
Michael Larabel is the principal author of Phoronix.com and founded the site in 2004 with a focus on enriching the Linux hardware experience. Michael has written more than 20,000 articles covering the state of Linux hardware support, Linux performance, graphics drivers, and other topics. Michael is also the lead developer of the Phoronix Test Suite, Phoromatic, and OpenBenchmarking.org automated benchmarking software. He can be followed via 
Twitter
, 
LinkedIn
, or contacted via 
MichaelLarabel.com
.
Popular News This Week
VideoLAN Publishes Dav2d For Open-Source AV2 Decoder
AMD Posts HDMI 2.1 FRL Patches For Their AMDGPU Linux Driver
Dirty Frag Vulnerability Made Public Early: Root Privilege On All Distributions
CachyOS Switches Python To Using Tail-Call Interpreter For 5~15% Better Performance
Steam On Linux In April Pulled Back From Its Record High Marketshare
Dell & Lenovo Now Sponsoring The Linux Vendor Firmware Service
Linux 7.1 Fixes Audio For The Steam Deck OLED After Being Broken 2 Years On The Upstream Kernel
Brush v0.4 Released As "Significant" Release For This Rust-Based Shell
Latest Linux News
Nocturne Is The Latest Music Player For GNOME To Hit v1.0
Hyprland 0.55 Released With Lua-Based Configuration, User-Defined Layouts
FEX 2605 Brings Performance Improvements, Initial Snapdragon X2 Elite Fixes
NVIDIA-VAAPI-Driver 0.0.17 Fixes Support For GB10 Powered Systems
KDE Plasma 6.7 To Support ICC Profiles In HDR Mode, Direct Scan-Out Improvement
FreeBSD 15.1 Beta 2 Brings Updated Zstd, Bug Fixes
NVIDIA Releases CUDA-Oxide 0.1 For Experimental Rust-To-CUDA Compiler
DM-INLINECRYPT Expected For Linux 7.2 To Leverage Inline Encryption
Qt Creator 20 Beta Expands AI Integration
OpenZL 0.2 Released For Meta's Content-Aware Compression Software
AMD's Local, Open-Source AI Can Now Easily Interact With Your Gmail
Linux Erroneously Thinks Intel Bartlett Lake CPUs Run At 7GHz
Show Your Support, Go Premium
Phoronix Premium
 allows ad-free access to the site, multi-page articles on a single page, and other features while supporting this site's continued operations.
Latest Featured Articles
AMD Instinct MI350P: PCIe Add-In Card For High Performance Open-Source AI/Compute
Nouveau vs. NVIDIA R595 Linux Driver For Workstation Graphics Performance
Linux 7.1 Features: New NTFS Driver, New Intel + AMD Hardware, Performance Optimizations & Modernization
GCC 16 Compiler Delivering Some Decent Performance Gains Over GCC 15
CachyOS Linux Performance Leading Over Ubuntu 26.04 LTS, Fedora Workstation 44
Support Phoronix
The mission at Phoronix since 2004 has centered around enriching the Linux hardware experience. In addition to supporting our site through advertisements, you can help by 
subscribing to Phoronix Premium
. You can also contribute to Phoronix through tips/donations via 
PayPal
 or 
Stripe
.
Phoronix Media
Contact
Michael Larabel
Phoronix Premium
Support Phoronix
While Having Ad-Free Browsing,
Single-Page Article Viewing
Share
Facebook
Twitter / X
Legal Disclaimer, Privacy Policy, Cookies
 | 
Privacy Manager
 | 
Contact
Copyright © 2004 - 2026 by 
Phoronix Media
.
All trademarks used are properties of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
Skip Ad