Framework: Our Linux Laptop 13 Pro Is Outselling the Windows Model
PCMag Australia
Best Picks
/
Reviews
/
News
/
How-To
/
Security
Business
Software
Deals
Best Picks
/
Computer & Electronics
Best Laptops
Best Monitors
Best Wireless Routers
Best Ultrawide Monitors
Best Printers
Best Keyboards
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras
Best Smart Locks
Best TVs
Best Noise-Cancelling Headphones
Best Gaming Headsets
Software
Best VPN Services
Best Antivirus Protection
Best Malware Removal and Protection Software
Best Password Managers
 Best Web Hosting Services
Best Mac Antivirus Protection
Best Security Suites
Best Streaming Services Australia
Best Free Password Managers
Business
Best CRM Software
Best Email Marketing Software
Best Marketing Automation Software
Best Dedicated Web Hosting Services
Best Business Cloud Storage and File Sharing Providers
Best Password Managers for Businesses
Best Business Laptops
Best Computer Monitors for Business
Best Printers for Business
Reviews
/
News
/
How-To
/
Security
Business
Software
Deals
Looking for a bargain? Shop the biggest tech deals in Australia here!
PCMag Australia
News
Operating Systems
Linux
Framework: Our Linux Laptop 13 Pro Is Outselling the Windows Model
Updated Apr 24, 2026
The Laptop 13 Pro is Framework's first Ubuntu-certified laptop. Customers can buy it with Ubuntu preinstalled, in addition to Windows 11.
 &
Michael Kan
Principal Reporter

                        Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
                    

                Our Expert
            
LOOK INSIDE PC LABS
HOW WE TEST
65
EXPERTS
43
YEARS
41,500+
REVIEWS
(Credit: PCMag/Michael Kan)
Linux PCs
 are usually considered niche, but one Linux-based laptop is outselling its Windows 11 counterpart.
Upgradable laptop maker Framework reported the surprising stat after opening preorders for the 
Laptop 13 Pro
. “Framework Laptop 13 Pro is selling far above our forecast, and we've sold out of the first six batches already,” the company 
tweeted
. “Also nice validation of our approach, the Ubuntu configurations are outselling the Windows ones!”
Unveiled on Tuesday, the 13 Pro is meant to appeal to power users, including software developers. It's Framework’s first Ubuntu-certified laptop, meaning it’s undergone extensive validation to ensure it runs the Linux-based OS without issues. Importantly, customers can buy the laptop with Ubuntu preinstalled, in addition to 
Windows 11
. 
Although other laptops have 
received
 Ubuntu certification, the 13 Pro was specifically designed to be a "MacBook Pro for Linux users," Framework says. During its launch event, the company also invited a staff engineer from Ubuntu developer Canonical to talk about the certification.
Recommended by Our Editors
New to Ubuntu? Start With These 15 Pro Tips Before You Do Anything Else
I Gave Up on Windows 11. Linux Mint Is Simply Better in 7 Big Ways
I Switched From Windows 11 to Linux Mint. Here Are 7 Things It Does Way Better
The marketing seems to have resonated with Framework fans at a time when Linux usage has been increasing. The latest Steam hardware survey 
logged
 Linux at a 5% share, a first for the OS and its various distributions. (Linux share first 
crossed
 the 1% mark back in 2021.) Valve’s Linux-based SteamOS has likely been a major contributor.
Although Framework isn’t a large PC vendor like Dell or HP, the Ubuntu-certified sales could help Linux become more mainstream. Microsoft has faced 
negative
 user sentiment about Windows 11, prompting a pledge to 
focus on quality improvements
 for the OS.
Stay tuned for our review of the Framework Laptop 13 Pro. In the meantime, the company is looking beyond Ubuntu. Framework CEO Nirav Patel noted that it’s been sending laptops to developers of other Linux distributions, suggesting that a wider range of Linux preinstall support could arrive down the line.
(Credit: Framework)
What Our Ratings Mean
5.0 - Exemplary: Near perfection, ground-breaking
4.5 - Outstanding: Best in class, acts as a benchmark for measuring competitors
4.0 - Excellent: A performance, feature, or value leader in its class, with few shortfalls
3.5 - Good: Does what the product should do, and does so better than many competitors
3.0 - Average: Does what the product should do, and sits in the middle of the pack
2.5 - Fair: We have some reservations, buy with caution
2.0 - Subpar: We do not recommend, buy with extreme caution
1.5 - Poor: Do not buy this product
1.0 - Dismal: Don't even think about buying this product

                  Read Our
                  
Editorial Mission Statement

                  and
                  
Testing Methodologies
.
              
About Our Expert
Michael Kan
Principal Reporter
My Experience
I've been a journalist for over 15 years. I got my start as a schools and cities reporter in Kansas City and joined PCMag in 2017, where I cover satellite internet services, cybersecurity, PC hardware, and more. I'm currently based in San Francisco, but previously spent over five years in China, covering the country's technology sector.
Since 2020, I've covered the launch and explosive growth of SpaceX's Starlink satellite internet service, writing 600+ stories on availability and feature launches, but also the regulatory battles over the expansion of satellite constellations, fights with rival providers like AST SpaceMobile and Amazon, and the effort to expand into satellite-based mobile service. I've combed through FCC filings for the latest news and driven to remote corners of California to test Starlink's cellular service. 
I also cover cyber threats, from ransomware gangs to the emergence of AI-based malware. In 2024 and 2025, 
the FTC forced Avast
 to pay consumers $16.5 million for secretly harvesting and selling their personal information to third-party clients, as revealed in my joint 
investigation
 with Motherboard.
I also cover the PC graphics card market. Pandemic-era shortages 
led me to camp out
 in front of a Best Buy to get an RTX 3000. I'm now following how the AI-driven memory shortage is impacting the entire consumer electronics market. I'm always eager to learn more, so please jump in the comments with feedback and send me tips.
The Best Tech I've Had:
My first video game console: a Nintendo Famicom
I loved my Sega Saturn despite PlayStation's popularity.
The iPod Video I received as a gift in college
Xbox 360 FTW
The Galaxy Nexus was the first smartphone I was proud to own.
The PC desktop I built in 2013, which still works to this day.
Read the latest from Michael Kan
FCC Extends Update Deadline for Foreign-Made Routers, Drones Until 2029
New Starlink Policy Requires Passport Check, 'Live Portrait' for International Use
T-Mobile Reopens Online Starlink Mobile Sign-Ups, No Call or Store Visit Needed
Concerns Mount That EU Will Demand Age Verification for VPNs
Canvas Restored After Hack, Breach Traced to 'Free-For-Teacher' Accounts
More from Michael Kan
Read full bio
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments.
PCMag Newsletters
Our Best Stories in Your Inbox 
Follow PCMag
(Opens in a new window)
facebook
(Opens in a new window)
X
(Opens in a new window)
flipboard
(Opens in a new window)
google
(Opens in a new window)
instagram
(Opens in a new window)
pinterest
Honest, Objective, Lab-Tested Reviews
PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
How We Test
Editorial Principles
Best Picks
/
Reviews
/
News
/
How-To
/
Security
Business
Software
Deals
About PCMagazine
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise
 AdChoices
For over 40 years, PCMag has been a trusted authority on technology, delivering independent, labs-based reviews of the latest products and services. With expert analysis and practical solutions across consumer electronics, software, security, and more, PCMag helps consumers make informed buying decisions and get the most from their tech. From in-depth reviews to the latest news and how-to guides, PCMag is the go-to source for staying ahead in the digital world.

      © 1996-2026 © 1996-2026 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.
    
International Editions:
PCMag USA
Canada
United Kingdom
Australia
Greece
Israel
Middle East