I Deployed My Own Flatcar Linux Update Server and Here’s What Actually Happened - Virtualization Howto
Skip to content
YouTube
Twitter
LinkedIn
GitHub
Facebook
Discord
Pinterest
Virtualization Howto
Virtualization, Cloud, DevOps, Reviews
Search for:
Subscribe
Forum
My kits
Home Lab NAS Kits
Intel Optane Swap Kit
VMware Compatible Mini PCs
Podcast
DevOps
Virtualization
Proxmox
VMware
Hyper-V
XCP-ng
Containers
Kubernetes
Mini PC & Server
Home Lab
My Home Lab
Nested ESXi Lab
Proxmox Build 2025
About
Contact
Disclaimer
E-books
Privacy
Newsletter
3
Home
2026
April
I Deployed My Own Flatcar Linux Update Server and Here’s What Actually Happened
I Deployed My Own Flatcar Linux Update Server and Here’s What Actually Happened
April 21, 2026
April 21, 2026
by Brandon Lee
I have been having a blast trying out container-specific operating systems. As of recently I have tried out a couple including 
Lightwhale
 and Flatcar. Both have been very good in my testing. I really think Flatcar for me is going to be one that stays long term in the lab since it is production grade and used by many in production environments. It has a lot of groundwork underneath it from 
Fedora CoreOS
. I love the Butane and Ignition configuration and how it is immutable. Updates are automatic and designed to reduce downtime. As it turns out there is a free solution, called Nebraska, to keep your Flatcar Linux updated and manage your fleet of Flatcar deployments.a
Brief Flatcar overview
Flatcar 
is a minimal, immutable OS built for containers. Updates are automatic and safe by design, and reduces any possible downtime with dual partitions. These function like a 
network switch
 where you have active slots for firmware that is active and one that is standby which is awesome.
Read my post on how to get up and running on Flatcar Linux in Proxmox here: 
I Installed Flatcar Linux on Proxmox and It’s Not Like a Normal Linux VM
.
But even with this, you are relying on the public Flatcar update service to control when your nodes update and to what version they move to. The way the Flatcar OS is designed, this is a pretty safe operation, but then you start thinking about real-world scenarios like the following:
What if an update breaks something in your cluster?
What if you want to stage updates across nodes?
What if you want to test updates before rolling them out?
That is where Nebraska comes in.
What is Nebraska?
Nebraska 
is a free and open source update server that Flatcar uses under the hood. The public Flatcar update service is 
essentially a hosted
 Nebraska instance. When you deploy your own Nebraska server, you take control of the entire update workflow in your home lab or production.
Nebraska update server for flatcar linux
One of the biggest misconceptions I had going in was thinking Nebraska would “manage” my nodes. It doesn’t do that. Nebraska is not an agent-based system. It does not discover machines. It does not 
push
 updates.
Instead, Nebraska is an Omaha update server. Flatcar nodes use 
update_engine
 to check in with an update server and ask it the simple question: 
“Is there an update available for me?”
Nebraska then uses a few things to answer that question based on:
the group the node belongs to
the channel it is on
the rollout rules configured
So, it is a passive solution meaning that the Flatcar 
server initiates
 the update checks not the other way around. So, just know when you deploy the Nebraska server, your nodes won’t automatically appear in the console from some discovery process. Even with Nebraska in place, the update process itself does not change fundamentally.
Flatcar still uses its dual partition system and the flow looks like this:
Node checks Nebraska for updates
Nebraska responds with a version if available
Flatcar downloads the update to the passive partition
System waits for a reboot
On reboot, it switches to the updated partition
Nebraska controls step 2 but everything else is handled by Flatcar locally. This is an important note because Nebraska does not reboot your nodes. You still need a reboot strategy for your Flatcar nodes.
Installing Nebraska
The Nebraska server is provided via a 
Helm chart
 that you can use to stand up the server in your Kubernetes cluster solution. Below are the configuration files that I created for my environment. Your environment may differ here so be sure to plugin the values you need for your environment. I also do have an ingress created for nebraska where 
Traefik takes care of my SSL certificates
, etc. 
I am also running middleware for handling logins to the solution. I tried to get Github auth working, but couldn’t find the right combination of helm values that worked correrctly.
File 1: kustomization.yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomizationnamespace: nebraskaresources:
  - namespace.yaml
  - nebraska-ingressroute.yamlhelmCharts:
  - name: nebraska
    repo: https://flatcar.github.io/nebraska
    releaseName: nebraska
    version: "2.0.0"
    valuesFile: values-nebraska.yaml
File 2: namespace.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: nebraska
  labels:
    pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce: baseline
    pod-security.kubernetes.io/audit: baseline
    pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn: baseline
File 3: nebraska-ingressroute.yaml
apiVersion: traefik.io/v1alpha1
kind: Middleware
metadata:
  name: nebraska-forwarded-headers
  namespace: nebraska
spec:
  headers:
    customRequestHeaders:
      X-Forwarded-Proto: https
    accessControlAllowOriginList:
      - "*"
---
apiVersion: traefik.io/v1alpha1
kind: Middleware
metadata:
  name: nebraska-basicauth
  namespace: nebraska
spec:
  basicAuth:
    secret: nebraska-basicauth
---
apiVersion: traefik.io/v1alpha1
kind: IngressRoute
metadata:
  name: nebraska
  namespace: nebraska
spec:
  entryPoints:
    - websecure
  routes:
    - kind: Rule
      match: Host(`nebraska.example.com`) && PathPrefix(`/v1/update`)
      services:
        - name: nebraska
          port: 80
      middlewares:
        - name: nebraska-forwarded-headers
    - kind: Rule
      match: Host(`nebraska.example.com`)
      services:
        - name: nebraska
          port: 80
      middlewares:
        - name: nebraska-forwarded-headers
        - name: nebraska-basicauth
  tls:
    certResolver: letsencrypt
File 4: values-nebraska.yaml
image:
  registry: ghcr.io
  repository: flatcar/nebraska
  tag: "3.0.0"
  pullPolicy: IfNotPresentreplicaCount: 1service:
  type: ClusterIP
  port: 80ingress:
  enabled: falsepostgresql:
  enabled: true
  auth:
    database: nebraska
    username: nebraska
    existingSecret: nebraska-postgresql
    secretKeys:
      adminPasswordKey: postgres-password
      userPasswordKey: password
  image:
    tag: 13.8.0-debian-11-r18
  primary:
    persistence:
      enabled: true
      storageClass: your-storage-class
      size: 5Giconfig:
  app:
    title: "Nebraska - Flatcar Update Manager"
    headerStyle: "dark"  syncer:
    enabled: true
    interval: "1h"  hostFlatcarPackages:
    enabled: false
    packagesPath: /mnt/packages
    persistence:
      enabled: false
      storageClass: your-storage-class
      size: 50Gi  auth:
    mode: noop  database:
    host: nebraska-postgresql
    port: 5432
    sslMode: disable
    dbname: nebraska
    username: nebraska
    passwordExistingSecret:
      enabled: true
      name: nebraska-postgresql
      key: passwordenv:
  - name: LOG_LEVEL
    value: "debug"resources:
  requests:
    cpu: 100m
    memory: 128Mi
  limits:
    cpu: 500m
    memory: 512Mi
Deploy it:
kubectl apply -k .
Browsing out to the Nebraska dashboard
After the pods were running, I was able to browse out to the Nebraska dashboard and get everything pulled up. Out of the box, Nebraska already has default “applications” added with policies attached for the various groups of Flatcar deployments. You will see:
Edge (ARM & AMD64)
Alpha (ARM & AMD64)
Beta (ARM & AMD64)
Stable (ARM & AMD64)
Exploring nebraska flatcar linux self hosted update server
How do you connect your Flatcar instances to your Nebraska server?
This one was one that I was stumped over for just a bit. I kept looking for a place to “add” servers or “discover” servers and didn’t find it. I even though that maybe I wasn’t in the true admin interface. However, after doing some more looking around, I learned that you “point” your Flatcar instances to your Nebraska server and they “register” themselves with it. 
So, the update process is still initiated from the client side (your Flatcar server), but then the policy that is applied comes from the Nebraska server. So to get your Flatcar server pointed to your Nebraska server, you add this as part of your 
ignition file
 that tells Flatcar to register itself to the Nebraska server and get update configurations from there.
This is under my 
storage configuration
 in my butane file. This is pretty straightforward here but you edit the contents of this update.conf file and point it to the server address of your nebraska server and the machine alias is how it will register itself with Nebraska.
- path: /etc/flatcar/update.conf
      overwrite: true
      mode: 0644
      contents:
        inline: |
          GROUP=stable
          SERVER=https://nebraska.example.cloud/v1/update/
          MACHINE_ALIAS=flatcar-proxmox
Here is the minimal configuration needed:
GROUP=stable
SERVER=https://nebraska.yourdomain.com/v1/update/
MACHINE_ALIAS=flatcar-proxmox
There are three important values here.
GROUP 
defines which rollout group the node belongs to and how you control staged updates later
SERVER 
tells the node where to check for update and this points to your Nebraska host with the /v1/update/ URL
MACHINE_ALIAS
 is optional but gives you a friendly name in the Nebraska UI, which is definitely useful
Once your ignition file runs for the Flatcar server, it will register itself with the Nebraska instance. You can speed up this process by logging into your Flatcar server and running:
sudo update_engine_client -update
Updating the flatcar server client update configuration
Once the flatcar server instance is registered with the nebraska server
If you view the instance list for the Stable channel, here is what mine looks like:
Viewing instances in nebraska server of flatcar linux servers that have registered
Below, I am viewing the 1 instance that is registered. Below you can see the alias name that we configured in the ignition file and other information like the IP address, status, what group it belongs to, etc.
Flatcar linux checking into the nebraska servers for new updates
When you look at the release channel group, you get a lot of valuable information, including updates that are complete, installed, downloading, downloaded, other, and those that are in an error state.
Viewing the details of the stable channel for updates failures errors and more
You can also edit the group and see the options here.
Editing the group for the stable channel
Under 
policy
, this is where you enable the updates, turn on safe mode if you want for only one update at a time, setting your timezone, and setting update limits.
Viewing the policy settings for the stable channel group
An IP address issue with Nebraska and Flatcar
After getting everything connected, I noticed something strange. Nebraska was showing my Flatcar node with an IP address in the Kubernetes pod network range:
10.244.x.x
Kubernetes pod ip showing for flatcar linux instead of the real ip address in nebraska server
But my actual node IP was:
10.1.149.187
This was confusing at first, but it started to make sense when I thought about how the actual traffic flows in Kubernetes. Nebraska records the IP of the connection it sees. If your request passes through:
an 
Ingress controller
kube-proxy
or a service that rewrites source IP
Then, Nebraska will see the internal cluster IP instead of the real client IP. In my case, traffic was being proxied through Kubernetes with Traefik, so Nebraska saw the pod network.
How to fix the wrong IP showing in Nebraska
There are a few ways to address this, depending on your setup.
If you are using a Service of type LoadBalancer or NodePort, you can preserve the original client IP by the following setting:
externalTrafficPolicy: Local
Setting the externaltrafficpolicy to local to preserve real ip addresses coming in
After applying this patch, Nebraska started to see the right IP address of my Flatcar Linux host.
Wrapping up
Nebraska is one of the tools working with Flatcar that really makes a lot of sense that this is a strong contender for adoption as your container host of choice. It is enterprise ready and has tools that show it can be managed in terms of fleets of nodes and not just one off updates. Nebraska is super simple but it gets the job done and gives you control over how the updates take place on your Flatcar nodes. How about you? Are you running Flatcar Linux and if so, are you making use of Nebraska server? Let me know in the comments.
Add as a preferred source on Google
Google is updating how articles are shown. Don’t miss our leading home lab and tech content, written by humans, by setting 
Virtualization Howto as a preferred source
.
About The Author
Brandon Lee
Brandon Lee is the Senior Writer, Engineer and owner at Virtualizationhowto.com, and a 7-time VMware vExpert, with over two decades of experience in Information Technology. Having worked for numerous Fortune 500 companies as well as in various industries, He has extensive experience in various IT segments and is a strong advocate for open source technologies. Brandon holds many industry certifications, loves the outdoors and spending time with family. Also, he goes through the effort of testing and troubleshooting issues, so you don't have to.
See author's posts
Like this:
Like
Loading…
home lab
Tagged 
home lab
, 
home server
Post navigation
I Installed Flatcar Linux on Proxmox and It’s Not Like a Normal Linux VM
Proxmox 9.1.8 Finally Rebalances HA Workloads Automatically
Related Posts
E Cores vs P Cores in Home Servers
If you are thinking about a new mini PC for your home lab server and want to go the Intel CPU route, there are some considerations to be made when…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Consumer vs Enterprise SSDs in the Home Lab: I Benchmarked Both in Ceph
A lot of questions on types of hardware come up when ones are building a home lab server or home lab cluster that are definitely worth asking. Recently I had…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Copy VMware Workstation VM to ESXi: Home Lab
When it comes to building your first home lab, there is nothing wrong with starting out with VMware Workstation. Realistically, this may be all you need. Having a decent workstation…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
0
0
votes
Article Rating
Subscribe
Connect with
 Login
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Notify of 
new follow-up comments
new replies to my comments
Label
Name*
Email*
Connect with
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Label
Name*
Email*
0
 Comments                    
Oldest
Newest
Most Voted
 Inline Feedbacks                    
View all comments
Proxmox Server Build Components
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Minisforum BD795M
RackChoice 2U Micro ATX Compact
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
Noctua NH-L9i-17xx, Low-Profile CPU Cooler
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Crucial 96GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Intel X520-DA2 10 GbE Network Adapter
Kingston 240GB Drive for Boot
Samsung 990 Pro 2TB
MX-4 Thermal Paste
Gaming/Proxmox Build 2025
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Thermaltake Tower 200
Minisforum BD790i X3D
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Arctic P12 Slim Fan
PNY NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5080 OC
Predator 1TB NVMe Boot Drive
Samsung 990 Pro 4TB – VM Storage
Copyright © 2026 
Virtualization Howto
wpDiscuz
Insert
%d