How one venture firm is investing in an increasingly fragmented world | TechCrunch
Skip to content
The first StrictlyVC of 2026 hits SF on April 30. Tickets are going fast. 
Register now.
Close
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
Latest
Startups
Venture
Apple
Security
AI
Apps
Events
Podcasts
Newsletters
Search
Submit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics

		Latest	

		AI	

		Amazon	

		Apps	

		Biotech & Health	

		Climate	

		Cloud Computing	

		Commerce	

		Crypto	

		Enterprise	

		EVs	

		Fintech	

		Fundraising	

		Gadgets	

		Gaming	

		Google	

		Government & Policy	

		Hardware	

		Instagram	

		Layoffs	

		Media & Entertainment	

		Meta	

		Microsoft	

		Privacy	

		Robotics	

		Security	

		Social	

		Space	

		Startups	

		TikTok	

		Transportation	

		Venture	
More from TechCrunch
		

		Staff	

		Events	

		Startup Battlefield	

		StrictlyVC	

		Newsletters	

		Podcasts	

		Videos	

		Partner Content	

		TechCrunch Brand Studio	

		Crunchboard	

		Contact Us	
Image Credits:
xia yuan / Getty Images

		Venture	
How one venture firm is investing in an increasingly fragmented world
Tim De Chant
8:00 PM PDT · April 28, 2026
The world today is riven by cultural differences, political divisions, and geopolitical disputes — a challenging environment for any investor hunting for startups that can grow large enough to deliver venture-scale returns.
Kompas VC
, which operates out of offices in Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Berlin, and Barcelona, has developed a regionally sensitive strategy to help it navigate, and invest in, this fragmented world. And it’s putting fresh capital toward this approach with a new €160 million fund ($187.5 million), the firm told TechCrunch.
“We see the world really falling into three main spheres of economic activity, of political activity — the U.S., Europe, and China,” Sebastian Peck, partner at Kompas VC, told TechCrunch. “We certainly see today that these three domains follow very, very different trajectories.”
Kompas has staked its reputation on backing startups that tackle core industrial competitiveness challenges, from manufacturing and supply chains to critical infrastructure and sustainability. Those themes haven’t disappeared, but different regions emphasize them to varying degrees. 
“There was a lot of enthusiasm around these themes back in 2021,” Peck said of the year that Kompas was founded. “In 2026, we’re in a very, very different paradigm. It’s all about AI, it’s all about fast growth, very explosive growth. A lot of big topics that we partially play to but also are not really part of what we stand for.”
“Our focus is in the physical world, anything around producing physical goods,” he added, saying that Kompas focuses on startups working on decarbonization, productivity, and risk management. “We’ve found our niche.”
Kompas VC partners, from left: Talia Rafaeli, Andreas Winter-Extra, and Sebastian Peck
Image Credits:
Kompas VC
That niche turns out to be pretty broad. 
Reshoring
 is en vogue in nearly every market, and depending on the startup, those markets typically have more than enough scale for a firm like Kompas.
Techcrunch event
This Week Only: Buy one pass, get the second at 50% off
Your next round. Your next hire. Your next breakout opportunity. Find it at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026, where 10,000+ founders, investors, and tech leaders gather for three days of 250+ tactical sessions, powerful introductions, and market-defining innovation. Register before May 8 to bring a +1 at half the cost.
This Week Only: Buy one pass, get the second at 50% off
Your next round. Your next hire. Your next breakout opportunity. Find it at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026, where 10,000+ founders, investors, and tech leaders gather for three days of 250+ tactical sessions, powerful introductions, and market-defining innovation. Register before May 8 to bring a +1 at half the cost.
San Francisco, CA
|
October 13-15, 2026
REGISTER NOW
Though dwarfed by some venture funds these days, Kompas’ newly raised second fund should give it ample opportunity to lead early-stage rounds with checks ranging from €3 million to €5 million. 
As a European fund, Kompas has access to a range of founders and startups in the region. But it must weigh how global fragmentation might limit the potential for some to deliver venture returns. Peck cites prefab housing as an example. The approach is widely used in Scandinavian countries, but it isn’t as common in Germany or the rest of Europe, let alone the United States.
“It feels like such an intuitive solution. It’s a product that is effectively an industrial product. It should be highly scalable,” he said. Ultimately, the reason it doesn’t resonate outside Scandinavia has more to do with “cultural conditioning” than the technology itself, he said. “In that industry, if the U.S. isn’t the market you can go to, you need to look very, very carefully at whether there’s a large enough addressable market.”
The fragmentation extends beyond housing. For example, in Europe, sustainability is still broadly attractive, in contrast to the U.S., where the theme doesn’t have the cachet it did several years ago. 
Still, a lot can change quickly, Peck acknowledges. “We are investing over 10-, 15-year horizons. That’s a few legislative periods to bridge, and sometimes things swing in unexpected directions.”
The shifting landscape poses a challenge, but also an opportunity for a smaller investor like Kompas. “I think there’s a great space for highly focused, highly specialized, smaller funds like ours to be the first check-in and sweep up certain themes and certain founders,” Peck said. 
Updated to clarify that Kompas operates an office in Barcelona, not Tel Aviv.
Topics
Exclusive
, 
industrial
, 
Kompas
, 
Venture
, 
venture funds
When you purchase through links in our articles, 
we may earn a small commission
. This doesn’t affect our editorial independence.

			Tim De Chant	
Senior Reporter, Climate
Tim De Chant is a senior climate reporter at TechCrunch. He has written for a wide range of publications, including Wired magazine, the Chicago Tribune, Ars Technica, The Wire China, and NOVA Next, where he was founding editor. 
De Chant is also a lecturer in MIT’s Graduate Program in Science Writing, and he was awarded a Knight Science Journalism Fellowship at MIT in 2018, during which time he studied climate technologies and explored new business models for journalism. He received his PhD in environmental science, policy, and management from the University of California, Berkeley, and his BA degree in environmental studies, English, and biology from St. Olaf College.
You can contact or verify outreach from Tim by emailing 
tim.dechant@techcrunch.com
.
View Bio 
May 27
Athens, Greece
StrictlyVC Athens is up next. Hear unfiltered insights straight from Europe’s tech leaders and connect with the people shaping what’s ahead. Lock in your spot before it’s gone.
REGISTER NOW
Most Popular
Laid-off Oracle workers tried to negotiate better severance. Oracle said no. 
Julie Bort
San Francisco’s housing market has lost its mind
Connie Loizos
Hackers deface school login pages after claiming another Instructure hack
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
Zack Whittaker
Hackers steal students’ data during breach at education tech giant Instructure
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
As workers worry about AI, Nvidia’s Jensen Huang says AI is ‘creating an enormous number of jobs’
Lucas Ropek
Ouster’s new color lidar is coming to replace cameras
Sean O'Kane
This tiny, magnetic e-reader could stop you from doomscrolling
Amanda Silberling

		Loading the next article		

		Error loading the next article	
✕
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Crunchboard Jobs
Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
RSS Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Anthropic
SAP
Samsung
Marc Lore
TechCrunch Disrupt
Tech Layoffs
ChatGPT
© 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
Some areas of this page may shift around if you resize the browser window. Be sure to check heading and document order.