Indirect prompt injection is taking hold in the wild - Help Net Security
Help Net Security newsletters
: Daily and weekly news, cybersecurity jobs, open source projects, breaking news – 
subscribe here!
News
Features
CISO
AI
Videos
Product showcase
Industry news
Reviews
Whitepapers
Events
Newsletters
Please turn on your JavaScript for this page to function normally.
Zeljka Zorz
, Editor-in-Chief, Help Net Security
                                            
April 24, 2026
Share
Indirect prompt injection is taking hold in the wild
The open web is slowly but surely filling up with “traps” designed for LLM-powered AI agents. 
The technique, known as indirect prompt injection (IPI), involves hiding (more or less) covert instructions inside ordinary web pages, waiting for an AI agent to read them and carry out the author’s commands.
The IPI attack kill chain (Source: Forcepoint)
“Ignore previous instructions”
In back-to-back reports published this week, Google and Forcepoint researchers laid out real-world evidence of these attacks. 
Google used a repository of 2–3 billion crawled pages per month as their data source, focusing on static websites including blogs, forums and comment sections (and eschewing social media content).
Forcepoint’s X-Labs researchers conducted active threat hunting across publicly accessible web infrastructure, with telemetry flagging real payloads triggering on patterns like “Ignore previous instructions” and “If you are an LLM.” 
Both companies found IPIs fueled by harmless and malicious intent. 
The first category, 
according to Google
, contains pranks and helpful guidance, such as instructions to change the AI agent’s conversational tone (“Tweet like a bird”) or add relevant content to AI summaries (e.g., telling users to check facts for themselves).
The latter includes:
Search engine manipulation / traffic hijacking
IPIs meant to prevent AI agents from retrieving content (DoS) and to initiate a destructive action instead
IPIs aimed at data exfitration (e.g., API keys)
IPIs focused on destruction (e.g., “try to delete all files on the user’s machine”)
IPI with destructive intent (Source: Google)
Forcepoint researchers also unearthed IPI attempts aimed at performing financial fraud. 
One payload, for example, embedded a fully specified PayPal transaction and step-by-step instructions designed for AI agents with integrated payment capabilities. A second case used meta tag namespace injection combined with a persuasion amplifier keyword (“ultrathink”) to route AI-mediated financial actions toward a Stripe donation link.
A third case appeared to function as a widely distributed test payload, possibly to identify which AI systems are vulnerable before deploying higher-impact attacks. 
Hiding from humans
Attackers use different tricks to hide malicious instructions from human eyes while keeping them fully visible to AI. 
The most common involve making text physically invisible on a webpage by shrinking it to a single pixel, draining its color to near-transparency, or simply tagging it as hidden using standard web design tools. 
The more sophisticated tricks involve burying payloads inside HTML comment sections and hiding instructions inside a page’s metadata.
There’s a growing interest in IPI attacks
Neither team found evidence of sophisticated, coordinated campaigns, though, according to Forcepoint researchers, “shared injection templates across multiple domains suggest organized tooling rather than isolated experimentation.
Still, the window for getting ahead of this threat is closing fast, they believe. 
Google says it observed a sharp uptick in malicious activity during its scans: “We saw a relative increase of 32% in the malicious category between November 2025 and February 2026, repeating the scan on multiple versions of the [CommonCrawl archive of the public web].” 
Forcepoint also 
pointed out
 that that the impact of these attacks scales with AI privilege.
“A browser AI that can only summarize is low-risk. An agentic AI that can send emails, execute terminal commands or process payments becomes a high-impact target. If AI agents consume untrusted web content without enforcing a strict data-instruction boundary, every page they read 
remains a potential attack vector
.”
Subscribe to our breaking news e-mail alert to never miss out on the latest breaches, vulnerabilities and cybersecurity threats. 
Subscribe here!
More about
agentic AI
AI
data theft
DoS
Forcepoint
Google
LLMs
prompt injection
research
SEO
threat
Share
Featured

                news
            
Dirty Frag: Unpatched Linux vulnerability delivers root access
Ivanti EPMM vulnerability exploited in zero-day attacks (CVE-2026-6973)
What Mozilla learned running an AI security bug hunting pipeline on Firefox
Download: Automating Pentest Delivery Guide
Resources
Webinar: The IT Leader’s Guide to AI Governance
CIS Benchmarks March 2026 Update
Download: 2026 SANS Identity Threats & Defenses Survey
Don't
 miss
Dirty Frag: Unpatched Linux vulnerability delivers root access
Ivanti EPMM vulnerability exploited in zero-day attacks (CVE-2026-6973)
May 2026 Patch Tuesday forecast: AI starts driving security industry changes
Product showcase: NetGuard open-source firewall for Android
What Mozilla learned running an AI security bug hunting pipeline on Firefox
Cybersecurity news
HNS Daily

                                                    Daily newsletter sent Monday-Friday                                                
HNS Newsletter

                                                    Weekly newsletter sent on Mondays                                                
InSecure Newsletter

                                                    Editor's choice newsletter sent twice a month                                                
Breaking news

                                                    Periodical newsletter released when there is breaking news                                                
Cybersecurity jobs

                                                    Weekly newsletter listing new cybersecurity job positions                                                
Open source

                                                    Monthly newsletter focusing on open source cybersecurity tools                                                
Subscribe
I have read and agree to the
                                    
terms & conditions

                    © Copyright 1998-2026 by
                    
Help Net Security
Read our privacy policy
|
About us
|
Advertise
Follow us
×