Open source package with 1 million monthly downloads stole user credentials - Ars Technica
Privacy Center
Currently, only residents from GDPR countries and certain US states can opt out of Tracking Technologies through our Consent Management Platform. Additional options regarding these technologies may be available on your device, browser, or through industry options like AdChoices. Please see our Privacy Policy for more information.
Social Media
On
These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit.  If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools.
Essential
On
This website uses essential cookies and services to enable core website features and provide a seamless user experience. These cookies and services are used to facilitate features such as navigation, remember user preferences, and ensure the security of the website.
Targeted
On
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
Performance
On
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
Functional
On
This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities.
Audience Measurement
On
We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right.
OK
English
Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
日本語
繁體中文
en
Privacy Policy
Powered by

  Skip to content

Ars Technica home

            Sections
            

                Forum
              

                  Subscribe
                

                Search
              

                    AI
                  

                    Biz & IT
                  

                    Cars
                  

                    Culture
                  

                    Gaming
                  

                    Health
                  

                    Policy
                  

                    Science
                  

                    Security
                  

                    Space
                  

                    Tech
                  

                  Feature
                

                  Reviews
                

            AI
          

            Biz & IT
          

            Cars
          

            Culture
          

            Gaming
          

            Health
          

            Policy
          

            Science
          

            Security
          

            Space
          

            Tech
          

      Forum
    

        Subscribe
      
Story text
Size
Small
Standard
Large
Width
      
*
Standard
Wide
Links
Standard
Orange
* Subscribers only
Learn more

            Pin to story
          
Theme

                HyperLight
              

                Day & Night
              

                Dark
              

                System
              
Search

    Sign In
  

            Sign in dialog...
          

      Sign in
    

    POISONING THE WELL
  

        Open source package with 1 million monthly downloads stole user credentials
      

        If you’re one of millions using element-data, it’s time to check for compromise.
      

    Dan Goodin
  

  –
  
Apr 27, 2026 9:04 PM
|

    33
  
Text
        settings
Story text
Size
Small
Standard
Large
Width
      
*
Standard
Wide
Links
Standard
Orange
* Subscribers only
Learn more

            Minimize to nav
          
Open source software with more than 1 million monthly downloads was compromised after a threat actor exploited a vulnerability in the developers’ account workflow that gave access to its signing keys and other sensitive information.
On Friday, unknown attackers exploited the vulnerability to push a new version of 
element-data
, a command-line interface that helps users monitor performance and anomalies in machine-learning systems. When run, the malicious package scoured systems for sensitive data, including user profiles, warehouse credentials, cloud provider keys, API tokens, and SSH keys, developers 
said
. The malicious version was tagged as 0.23.3 and was published to the developers’ Python Package Index and Docker image accounts. It was removed about 12 hours later, on Saturday. Elementary Cloud, the Elementary dbt package, and all other CLI versions weren’t affected.
Assume compromise
“Users who installed 0.23.3, or who pulled and ran the affected Docker image, should assume that any credentials accessible to the environment where it ran may have been exposed,” the developers wrote.
The threat actor gained access to the developers’ account by exploiting a vulnerability in a GitHub action they created. By posting malicious code to a pull request, the attackers were able to run a bash script that ran inside the developer’s account. The bash script retrieved the sensitive data. With the account tokens and signing keys, the attacker went on to publish a malicious element-data package that was nearly indistinguishable from a legitimate one.
Ars Video
How Lighting Design In The Callisto Protocol Elevates The Horror
The developers learned of the compromise from a third-party 
issue report
. Within three hours, the package was removed. Element developers said they also rotated all credentials that the malicious code had access to. They have further fixed the vulnerability and audited all their other GitHub actions to ensure none contain the same flaw.
The developers are urging all developers who installed version 0.23.3 to take the following steps immediately:
1. Check your installed version:
pip show elementary-data | grep Version
2. If the version is 0.23.3, uninstall it and replace it with the safe version:
pip uninstall elementary-data
pip install elementary-data==0.23.4
In your requirements and lockfiles, pin explicitly to elementary-data==0.23.4.
3. Delete your cache files to avoid any artifacts.
4. Check for the malware’s marker file on any machine where the CLI may have run: If this file is present, the payload executed on that machine.
macOS / Linux: /tmp/.trinny-security-update
Windows: %TEMP%\\.trinny-security-update
5. Rotate any credentials that were accessible from the environment where 0.23.3 ran – dbt profiles, warehouse credentials, cloud provider keys, API tokens, SSH keys, and the contents of any .env files. CI/CD runners are especially exposed because they typically have broad sets of secrets mounted at runtime.
6. Contact your security team to hunt for unauthorized usage of exposed credentials. The relevant IOCs are 
at the bottom of this post
.
Over the past decade, supply-chain attacks on open source repositories have become increasingly common. In some cases, they have achieved a chain of compromises as the malicious package leads to breaches of users and, from there, breaches resulting from the compromise of the users’ environments.
HD Moore, a hacker with more than four decades of experience and the founder and CEO of runZero, said that user-developed repository workflows, such as GitHub actions, are notorious for hosting vulnerabilities.
It’s “a major problem for open source projects with open repos,” he said. “It’s really hard to not accidentally create dangerous workflows that can be exploited by an attacker’s pull request.”
He said 
this package
 can be used to check for such vulnerabilities.

                  Dan Goodin
              
Senior Security Editor

                  Dan Goodin
              
Senior Security Editor

      Dan Goodin is Senior Security Editor at Ars Technica, where he oversees coverage of malware, computer espionage, botnets, hardware hacking, encryption, and passwords. In his spare time, he enjoys gardening, cooking, and following the independent music scene. Dan is based in San Francisco. Follow him at 
here
 on Mastodon and 
here
 on Bluesky. Contact him on Signal at DanArs.82.
    

    33 Comments
  

    Comments
  
Forum view

      Loading comments...
    
Prev story
Next story

        Most Read
1.
Engineers at NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab make a breakthrough in rotor technology
2.
The unprecedented and deadly cruise ship hantavirus outbreak, explained
3.
Court rules Trump's 10% tariff is just as illegal as the tariff it replaced
4.
Elon Musk faces criminal probe in France after ignoring summons in X case
5.
SpaceX is starting to move on from the world's most successful rocket
Customize
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from
          the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
          technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts
          and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After
          all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
More
          from Ars
        
About Us
Staff Directory
Ars Newsletters
General FAQ
Posting Guidelines
AI Policy
RSS Feeds
Contact
Contact us
Advertise with us
Reprints

            Manage Preferences
          

      
      © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or
      registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
User Agreement
 and
      
Privacy Policy and
        Cookie Statement
 and 
Ars
        Technica Addendum
 and 
Your
        California Privacy Rights
. Ars Technica may earn compensation on
      sales from links on this site. 
Read our
        affiliate link policy
. The material on this site may not be
      reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except
      with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. 
Ad
        Choices

            Sign in dialog...
          

      Sign in
    