AI has crossed a threshold – what Claude Mythos means for the future of cybersecurity
Home
Arts 
+
 Culture
Environment 
+
 Science
Business 
+
 Economy
Health
Education
Politics 
+
 Society
Edition

            Africa
          

            Australia
          

            Brasil
          

            Canada
          

            Canada (français)
          

            Català
          

            España
          

            Europe
          

            France
          

            Global
          

            Indonesia
          

            New Zealand
          

            United Kingdom
          

            United States
          
Donate
Skip to content
Edition:
New Zealand
Africa
Australia
Brasil
Canada
Canada (français)
Català
España
Europe
France
Global
Indonesia
United Kingdom
United States
s
      
Donate

      Newsletters

Become an author
Sign up as a reader
Sign in
Academic rigour, journalistic flair
Arts 
+
 Culture
Environment 
+
 Science
Business 
+
 Economy
Health
Education
Politics 
+
 Society

          The independently tested capabilities of Claude Mythos Preview have got the financial sector worried.
          
Jinda Noipho/Alamy

            AI has crossed a threshold – what Claude Mythos means for the future of cybersecurity
          
Published: April 24, 2026 4.03am NZST

    https://theconversation.com/ai-has-crossed-a-threshold-what-claude-mythos-means-for-the-future-of-cybersecurity-281308
  

        https://theconversation.com/ai-has-crossed-a-threshold-what-claude-mythos-means-for-the-future-of-cybersecurity-281308
      

          Link copied
        

          Share article
        
Share article
Copy link
Email
Bluesky
Facebook
WhatsApp
Messenger
LinkedIn
X (Twitter)
Print article
The limit of what artificial intelligence can achieve, known as 
frontier AI
, has crossed another threshold. AI can now plan and execute sophisticated cyber operations with minimal guidance at speeds far beyond human 
capability
.
That, at least, is the evidence from an 
independent test
 of 
Claude Mythos Preview
, the latest and most advanced model in the 
Claude
 family of AI systems, developed by US tech firm 
Anthropic
. Similar to 
ChatGPT
, these can understand and generate human-like text, analyse information, and solve complex problems.
The finance sector is 
alarmed
. It relies on highly interconnected digital systems that are especially attractive targets for 
sophisticated cyber-attacks
. A successful breach could disrupt payments, freeze access to funds, and erode public trust in the banking system.
Major UK and US banks are 
preparing controlled trials
 under strict safeguards. They will be granted secure, supervised access to the Mythos Preview model in isolated environments, to evaluate its ability to detect vulnerabilities in their systems while minimising any risk of misuse. It’s a bit like dangerous viruses being examined in high-security laboratories.
The UK’s 
AI Security Institute
, a research organisation within the government’s Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, has already 
tested Mythos Preview
 on a demanding benchmark known as The Last Ones. As the name suggests, this series of challenges has been designed as the final hurdle AI systems need to complete before being deemed able to fully automate complex, real-world cyber-attacks from start to finish.
In the controlled test, Mythos Preview 
autonomously surfaced thousands
 of 
“zero day”
 vulnerabilities – flaws unknown even to the software’s own developers – across every major operating system and popular web browser. Some of these had remained undetected for 
up to 27 years
, even though the software had been carefully checked millions of times.
Video: Bloomberg TV.
Under controlled conditions, a skilled human operator would typically need around 20 hours to complete the exercise. In ten independent runs, Mythos achieved full success three times, making this preview version the first AI model to solve the entire attack chain end-to-end.
The results show genuine 
autonomous chaining
 of complex sequential actions. Mythos Preview thus represents a major leap in the ability of an AI to act as a truly autonomous agent, planning and executing complex, multi-step tasks over extended periods with 
minimal human intervention
.
But the significance of this technological breakthrough extends well beyond cyber-attacks. The same capability could soon allow AI to autonomously manage software development, scientific research, supply chains or financial operations. Mythos Preview signals a shift from powerful assistant to genuinely autonomous operator, with 
wide-reaching implications
 across many industries.
The dual-use dilemma
Rather than releasing it publicly, Anthropic has so far 
restricted access
 through its 
Project Glasswing
, an initiative that gives selected technology companies and critical infrastructure providers including Apple, Google, Microsoft, Cisco and Amazon controlled access to the model.
Anthropic’s 
stated idea
 is to “to secure the world’s most critical software” by identifying and fixing security weaknesses in the operating systems, browsers and critical libraries that underpin virtually all modern digital systems, before they can be exploited. Only after that will Mythos see wider deployment as a general-purpose AI system.
Traditional 
vulnerability management
 is the process of identifying, assessing and fixing weaknesses in software and systems before attackers can exploit them – a slow, labour-intensive task performed by experts. Mythos could change this process dramatically – 
in both positive and negative ways
.
Its emergence creates a classic dual-use dilemma: the same breakthrough that strengthens cyber defence can also 
lower the barrier
 for offensive operations.
Anthropic claims Claude Mythos can ‘secure the world’s most critical software’.
mundissima/Alamy
On the positive side, it could enable defenders to discover and patch thousands of previously unknown vulnerabilities at unprecedented speed and scale, potentially making critical software far more secure and reducing the window for attacks.
Many current cybercrimes such as 
ransomware
 succeed by exploiting known or easily discoverable weaknesses in unpatched systems. These could be significantly reduced if Mythos-class models are widely used for defensive vulnerability discovery.
However, 
more sophisticated or targeted ransomware attacks
 – especially those using stolen credentials, social engineering, or already-compromised accounts – are far less likely to be affected, as they often bypass traditional software vulnerabilities altogether.
On the negative side, the same capabilities could dramatically lower the barrier for malicious actors, allowing them to find and chain weaknesses much faster than human teams. This would accelerate sophisticated cyber-attacks if the technology spreads beyond controlled environments.
There is no public evidence that Mythos Preview has reached criminal groups or nation-state 
adversaries
 – yet. But the history of cybersecurity technology suggests that well-resourced actors, either state-sponsored or criminal, may 
develop comparable systems
 or gain indirect access within the near future.
The future of cybersecurity
In the short term, governments are likely to 
revise their cybersecurity protocols
 and incident-response frameworks to incorporate mandatory AI-assisted vulnerability scanning. This would require organisations to continuously scan their systems using AI, rather than relying on occasional human checks.
While this could dramatically improve security by finding flaws faster, it is likely to 
raise costs significantly
 and carries the risk of system slowdowns, false alarms, or brief operational disruptions when fixes are applied.
Cyber insurers
 will almost certainly begin demanding evidence of such defences as a condition of coverage, 
driving up
 insurance premiums, while critical-infrastructure operators accelerate deployment of automated monitoring and response systems. This change will impact not only banks and financial institutions, but also critical infrastructure operators in energy, healthcare, telecoms, and transport.
Of course, Mythos is not the final chapter. Future models developed by Anthropic and other leading AI companies are being designed to function as highly autonomous AI agents, capable of independently planning, adapting and executing long, complex sequences of tasks. As well as discovering vulnerabilities, this could mean coordinating large-scale operations or managing sophisticated real-world workflows – all with minimal human guidance.
Moments like this demand both urgency and measured action. Careful governance, international cooperation, and sustained investment in defensive applications will be 
essential
. The genie is out of the bottle – the challenge now is ensuring it serves security rather than chaos.
Artificial intelligence (AI)
Finance
Cybersecurity
Technology
Ransomware
Cyber safety
Cyber risks
Gerald Mako
, 
University of Cambridge
Author

        Gerald Mako
      

      Research Affiliate, Cambridge Central Asia Forum, University of Cambridge
    
Disclosure statement
Gerald Mako does not work for, consult, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond their academic appointment.
Partners
University of Cambridge
 provides funding as a member of The Conversation UK.
View all partners
DOI
https://doi.org/10.64628/AB.4fx7pvmqh
We believe in the free flow of information
Republish our articles for free, online or in print, under Creative Commons licence.
Republish this article
Our Audience


  The Conversation has a monthly audience of 18 million users, and reach of 42 million through Creative Commons 
republication
.

Want to write?

    Write an article and join a growing community of more than 225,300 academics and researchers from 5,518 institutions.
  
Register now
Editorial Policies
Community standards
Republishing guidelines
Analytics
Events, Courses & Podcasts
Our feeds
Get newsletter
Who we are
Our charter
Our team
Our audience and impact
Partners and funders
Resource for media
Contact us
​
​
​
​
​
​
Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
Corrections

      Copyright © 2010–2026, 
The Conversation Media Group Ltd