'Tokenmaxxing' is making developers less productive than they think | TechCrunch
Skip to content
The first StrictlyVC of 2026 hits SF on April 30. Tickets are going fast. 
Register now.
Close
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
Latest
Startups
Venture
Apple
Security
AI
Apps
Events
Podcasts
Newsletters
Search
Submit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics

		Latest	

		AI	

		Amazon	

		Apps	

		Biotech & Health	

		Climate	

		Cloud Computing	

		Commerce	

		Crypto	

		Enterprise	

		EVs	

		Fintech	

		Fundraising	

		Gadgets	

		Gaming	

		Google	

		Government & Policy	

		Hardware	

		Instagram	

		Layoffs	

		Media & Entertainment	

		Meta	

		Microsoft	

		Privacy	

		Robotics	

		Security	

		Social	

		Space	

		Startups	

		TikTok	

		Transportation	

		Venture	
More from TechCrunch
		

		Staff	

		Events	

		Startup Battlefield	

		StrictlyVC	

		Newsletters	

		Podcasts	

		Videos	

		Partner Content	

		TechCrunch Brand Studio	

		Crunchboard	

		Contact Us	
Image Credits:
Getty Images

		AI	
‘Tokenmaxxing’ is making developers less productive than they think
Tim Fernholz
11:42 AM PDT · April 17, 2026
There’s an old saw in management: What you measure matters. And, typically, you get more of whatever you’re measuring.
Software engineers have debated productivity metrics for decades, starting with lines of code. But as the new generation of AI coding agents delivers more code than ever, what their managers ought to be measuring is less clear.
Enormous token budgets — essentially, the amount of AI processing power a developer is authorized to consume — have become a badge of honor among Silicon Valley developers, but that’s a very weird way to think about productivity. Measuring an input to the process makes little sense when you presumably care more about the output. It might make sense if you’re trying to encourage more AI adoption (or selling tokens), but not if you’re trying to become more efficient.
Consider the evidence from a new class of companies operating in the “developer productivity insight” space. They’re finding that developers using tools like Claude Code, Cursor, and Codex generate a lot more accepted code than they did before. But they also find that engineers have to return to revise that accepted code far more often than before, undercutting claims of increased productivity.
Alex Circei, the CEO and founder of 
Waydev
, is building an intelligence layer to track these dynamics; his firm works with 50 different customers that employ more than 10,000 software engineers. (Circei has contributed to TechCrunch in the past, but this reporter had never met him before.)
He says that engineering managers are seeing code acceptance rates of 80% to 90% — meaning the share of AI-generated code that developers approve and keep — but they’re missing the churn that happens when engineers have to revise that code in the following weeks, which drives the real-world acceptance rate down between 10% and 30% of generated code.
The rise of AI coding tools led Waydev, founded in 2017 to provide developer analytics, to totally rework its platform in the last six months to address the proliferation of rapid coding tools. Now, the company is releasing new tools that track the metadata generated by AI agents, offering analytics on the quality and cost of their code to provide engineering managers with more insight into both AI adoption and efficacy.
Techcrunch event
This Week Only: Buy one pass, get the second at 50% off
Your next round. Your next hire. Your next breakout opportunity. Find it at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026, where 10,000+ founders, investors, and tech leaders gather for three days of 250+ tactical sessions, powerful introductions, and market-defining innovation. Register before May 8 to bring a +1 at half the cost.
This Week Only: Buy one pass, get the second at 50% off
Your next round. Your next hire. Your next breakout opportunity. Find it at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026, where 10,000+ founders, investors, and tech leaders gather for three days of 250+ tactical sessions, powerful introductions, and market-defining innovation. Register before May 8 to bring a +1 at half the cost.
San Francisco, CA
|
October 13-15, 2026
REGISTER NOW
While analytics companies have an incentive to highlight the problems they find, the evidence is mounting that large organizations are still figuring out how to use AI tools efficiently. Major companies are noticing — Atlassian acquired DX, another engineering intelligence startup, for $1 billion last year, to help its customers understand the return on investment on coding agents.
The data from across the industry tells a consistent story: More code is being written, but a disproportionate amount of it isn’t sticking.
GitClear
, another company in this space, 
published a report
 in January that found AI tools increased productivity, but also that its data showed “regular AI users averaged 9.4x higher code churn than their non-AI counterparts” — more than double the productivity gains the tools provided.
Faros AI, an engineering analytics platform, drew on two years of customer data for its 
March 2026 report
. The finding: code churn — lines of code deleted versus lines added — had increased 861% under high AI adoption.
Jellyfish, which bills itself as an intelligence platform for AI-integrated engineering, 
collected data
 on 7,548 engineers in the first quarter of 2026. The firm found that the engineers with the largest token budgets produced the most pull requests (proposed changes to a shared codebase), but the productivity improvement didn’t scale. They achieved two times the throughput at 10 times the cost of tokens. In other words, the tools are generating volume, not value.
These kinds of statistics ring true when you talk to developers, who are finding that code review and technical debt are stacking up, even as they revel in the freedom of the new tools. One common finding is the difference between senior and junior engineers, with the latter accepting far more AI-generated code, and dealing with a larger amount of rewriting as a consequence.
Still, even as developers work to understand exactly what their agents are up to, they don’t anticipate turning back anytime soon. 
“This is a new era of software development, and you have to adapt, and you are forced to adapt as a company,” Circei told TechCrunch. “It’s not like it will be a cycle that will pass.”
Topics
AI
, 
developers
, 
tokenmaxxing
When you purchase through links in our articles, 
we may earn a small commission
. This doesn’t affect our editorial independence.

			Tim Fernholz	
Senior Reporter

		Tim Fernholz is a journalist who writes about technology, finance and public policy. He has closely covered the rise of the private space industry and is the author of 
 Rocket Billionaires: Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos and the New Space Race.
 Formerly, he was a senior reporter at Quartz, the global business news site, for more than a decade, and began his career as a political reporter in Washington, D.C. 

You can contact or verify outreach from Tim by emailing tim.fernholz@
techcrunch.com
 or via an encrypted message to 
tim_fernholz.21
 on Signal.
	
View Bio 
May 27
Athens, Greece
StrictlyVC Athens is up next. Hear unfiltered insights straight from Europe’s tech leaders and connect with the people shaping what’s ahead. Lock in your spot before it’s gone.
REGISTER NOW
Most Popular
Hackers deface school login pages after claiming another Instructure hack
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
Zack Whittaker
reMarkable’s new Paper Pure tablet goes back to basics with a monochrome screen
Ivan Mehta
Hackers steal students’ data during breach at education tech giant Instructure
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
As workers worry about AI, Nvidia’s Jensen Huang says AI is ‘creating an enormous number of jobs’
Lucas Ropek
Anthropic and OpenAI are both launching joint ventures for enterprise AI services
Russell Brandom
Ouster’s new color lidar is coming to replace cameras
Sean O'Kane
This tiny, magnetic e-reader could stop you from doomscrolling
Amanda Silberling

		Loading the next article		

		Error loading the next article	
✕
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Crunchboard Jobs
Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
RSS Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Anthropic
SAP
Samsung
Marc Lore
TechCrunch Disrupt
Tech Layoffs
ChatGPT
© 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
Some areas of this page may shift around if you resize the browser window. Be sure to check heading and document order.