Ubuntu's "AI Kill Switch" Is Achieved By Removing Snaps, Initially Opt-In - Phoronix
Articles & Reviews
News Archive
Forums
Premium Ad-Free
Contact
 Popular Categories
Close
Articles & Reviews
News Archive
Forums
Premium
Contact
 Categories
Computers
Display Drivers
Graphics Cards
Linux Gaming
Memory
Motherboards
Processors
Software
Storage
Operating Systems
Peripherals
Ubuntu's "AI Kill Switch" Is Achieved By Removing Snaps, Initially Opt-In
Written by 
Michael Larabel
 in 
Ubuntu
 on 28 April 2026 at 06:25 AM EDT. 
24 Comments

Following yesterday's polarizing news of 
Canonical to begin shipping AI features in Ubuntu Linux
 over the course of the next year, Jon Seager as the VP of Engineering at Canonical has now provided some clarifications around their AI plans.

A short time ago Seager posted an update to his Ubuntu Discourse announcement around rolling out of AI features in Ubuntu over the next year, beginning with Ubuntu 26.10. He still has yet to elaborate on possible AI-driven features for Ubuntu Linux but at least clarified that it will initially be opt-in and in effect the "AI kill switch" for Ubuntu will be a matter of just removing some Snaps.

Seager 
explained
 in this morning's update while there won't be a "global kill switch" for AI features on Ubuntu, their plan is to deliver all the AI features via Snap packages. So removing AI features on Ubuntu will come down to removing Snaps.

The AI-backed features will initially be as a "preview" and "strictly opt-in basis" for Ubuntu 26.10. For Ubuntu 27.04 and beyond, the plan is to have an initial setup wizard around prompt users on the AI native features they may want or not. Part of this is being done since due to the large size of LLMs, they won't be baked into the Ubuntu install ISOs but have to be downloaded after the fact and thus can be punted off to an initial configuration wizard.

For addressing concerns around any cloud-based AI usage, Seager noted that those aren't part of the plans. The default configuration "will always be" to use local inference against local models.

He also did elaborate as some possible AI features like camera focus and text to speech:

"The plan here is not to force AI into every Desktop indiscriminately, but rather to enhance certain features where it makes sense (text to speech, camera focus, etc.) and make it easy for those who do want to consume AI features to do so in a way that they can trust, and that is well-integrated."
Lastly, the VP of Engineering did clarify that they will be shipping code in Ubuntu that is co-authored by AI.

"Regarding whether or not we should ship code that was co-authored by an AI - in reality we will be doing this. Even foundational projects in the ecosystem like the Kernel itself now have policies around how to govern this, and will accept tasteful, correct contributions that have been authored with AI."
Again, all of the official commentary in full can be found via 
Ubuntu Discourse
.
24 Comments
Related News
Ubuntu Touch 24.04-1.3 Improves Handling Of Desktop Apps, Other Fixes
Ubuntu Linux Will Begin Landing AI Features Throughout The Next Year
Ubuntu 26.04 LTS Now Available & Powered By Linux 7.0
Ubuntu Server 26.04 LTS Will Now Automatically Install HWE/OEM Kernel Packages
Ubuntu Rust Coreutils Audit Revealed 113 Issues, Ubuntu 26.10 Aims For "100% Rust Coreutils"
Ubuntu Looks Toward More Snap-Based Devpacks Moving Forward
About The Author
Michael Larabel is the principal author of Phoronix.com and founded the site in 2004 with a focus on enriching the Linux hardware experience. Michael has written more than 20,000 articles covering the state of Linux hardware support, Linux performance, graphics drivers, and other topics. Michael is also the lead developer of the Phoronix Test Suite, Phoromatic, and OpenBenchmarking.org automated benchmarking software. He can be followed via 
Twitter
, 
LinkedIn
, or contacted via 
MichaelLarabel.com
.
Popular News This Week
VideoLAN Publishes Dav2d For Open-Source AV2 Decoder
Dirty Frag Vulnerability Made Public Early: Root Privilege On All Distributions
AMD Posts HDMI 2.1 FRL Patches For Their AMDGPU Linux Driver
CachyOS Switches Python To Using Tail-Call Interpreter For 5~15% Better Performance
Steam On Linux In April Pulled Back From Its Record High Marketshare
Dell & Lenovo Now Sponsoring The Linux Vendor Firmware Service
Linux 7.1 Fixes Audio For The Steam Deck OLED After Being Broken 2 Years On The Upstream Kernel
Brush v0.4 Released As "Significant" Release For This Rust-Based Shell
Latest Linux News
Microsoft Releases Azure Linux 3.0.20260506 With Many Security Fixes
Nocturne Is The Latest Music Player For GNOME To Hit v1.0
Hyprland 0.55 Released With Lua-Based Configuration, User-Defined Layouts
FEX 2605 Brings Performance Improvements, Initial Snapdragon X2 Elite Fixes
NVIDIA-VAAPI-Driver 0.0.17 Fixes Support For GB10 Powered Systems
KDE Plasma 6.7 To Support ICC Profiles In HDR Mode, Direct Scan-Out Improvement
FreeBSD 15.1 Beta 2 Brings Updated Zstd, Bug Fixes
NVIDIA Releases CUDA-Oxide 0.1 For Experimental Rust-To-CUDA Compiler
DM-INLINECRYPT Expected For Linux 7.2 To Leverage Inline Encryption
Qt Creator 20 Beta Expands AI Integration
Show Your Support, Go Premium
Phoronix Premium
 allows ad-free access to the site, multi-page articles on a single page, and other features while supporting this site's continued operations.
Latest Featured Articles
AMD Instinct MI350P: PCIe Add-In Card For High Performance Open-Source AI/Compute
Nouveau vs. NVIDIA R595 Linux Driver For Workstation Graphics Performance
Linux 7.1 Features: New NTFS Driver, New Intel + AMD Hardware, Performance Optimizations & Modernization
GCC 16 Compiler Delivering Some Decent Performance Gains Over GCC 15
CachyOS Linux Performance Leading Over Ubuntu 26.04 LTS, Fedora Workstation 44
Support Phoronix
The mission at Phoronix since 2004 has centered around enriching the Linux hardware experience. In addition to supporting our site through advertisements, you can help by 
subscribing to Phoronix Premium
. You can also contribute to Phoronix through tips/donations via 
PayPal
 or 
Stripe
.
Phoronix Media
Contact
Michael Larabel
Phoronix Premium
Support Phoronix
While Having Ad-Free Browsing,
Single-Page Article Viewing
Share
Facebook
Twitter / X
Legal Disclaimer, Privacy Policy, Cookies
 | 
Privacy Manager
 | 
Contact
Copyright © 2004 - 2026 by 
Phoronix Media
.
All trademarks used are properties of their respective owners. All rights reserved.