PVE Note Buddy Is a Smarter Way to Use Proxmox Notes in Your Home Lab - Virtualization Howto
Skip to content
YouTube
Twitter
LinkedIn
GitHub
Facebook
Discord
Pinterest
Virtualization Howto
Virtualization, Cloud, DevOps, Reviews
Search for:
Subscribe
Forum
My kits
Home Lab NAS Kits
Intel Optane Swap Kit
VMware Compatible Mini PCs
Podcast
DevOps
Virtualization
Proxmox
VMware
Hyper-V
XCP-ng
Containers
Kubernetes
Mini PC & Server
Home Lab
My Home Lab
Nested ESXi Lab
Proxmox Build 2025
About
Contact
Disclaimer
E-books
Privacy
Newsletter
3
Home
2026
March
PVE Note Buddy Is a Smarter Way to Use Proxmox Notes in Your Home Lab
PVE Note Buddy Is a Smarter Way to Use Proxmox Notes in Your Home Lab
March 3, 2026
March 3, 2026
by Brandon Lee
I have been on a documentation kick lately, especially since there seem to be so many great tools landing on the documentation side of things for Proxmox powered home labs. There is a field in Proxmox that I would dare say is drastically underutilized. It is the 
Notes 
field. If you are anything like me, this field is either blank or filled with a random paragraph you typed six months ago and never updated again. Part of what makes it this way is the notes field feels a little bit bland and no real way to spruce them up. But all of this changed though recently when i started using an 
open source
 tool called PVE Note Buddy, and it completely changed how I think about documentation inside Proxmox and how information is presented. This is not some massive platform or complicated add-on. It is a small tool that changes how you can format your notes for a VM. Let’s see.
Why Proxmox notes usually get ignored by most
What’s the deal with the Proxmox notes field? Let’s be honest. When we build out our home labs, we get excited about:
Spinning up new VMs
Testing new storage backends
Deploying 
Kubernetes clusters
Segmenting VLANs
Benchmarking Ceph
We are not thinking about documentation in that moment. We tell ourselves we will document it later. Maybe we drop a quick note into the VM. Maybe we do not. The notes field just isn’t that interesting to us historically as there have been flashier ways to document things. However, would it make a difference if we could actually make the notes field cool and actually represent the app the VM is 
running in a way that is visually
 appealing and we can actually add useful information to? This is where PVE Note Buddy comes in.
What Is PVE Note Buddy?
PVE Note Buddy
 is an open source project created by the GitHub developer JangaJones that connects to your Proxmox cluster through the Proxmox API and allows you to manage VM and container notes programmatically.
Instead of clicking through each VM in the web UI and editing notes one at a time, you can standardize, update, and manage them in a more structured way. At first glance, that may not sound revolutionary. But once you think about treating notes as structured data instead of random text, then lightbulbs start going off. You are no longer just jotting down thoughts. You are capturing consistent information about your workloads.
Notes field using pve notes buddy
Installing PVE Note Buddy
There is no typical installation process with PVE Note Buddy. The PVE Note Buddy solution is a web tool that is hosted from github.io that gives you access to use the tool and customize the notes field in your PVE environment with the output generated when you create your template of information.
You can access the tool from GitHub here: 
PVE NoteBuddy
. Is there going to be a self-hosted local deployment of the solution? There isn’t much information on the GitHub repo about this officially, but there is a section found in the documentation for 
Local Deployment
 that simply says “soon”. So hopefully, this will be something we can even self-host as part of home lab tools and utilities.
Local deployment of pve note buddy
Using the PVE Note Buddy tool
Within just a couple of minutes of playing around with settings on the tool, you will feel comfortable generating your notes output with information you want to include. I think one of the best aspects of the tool is that the developer has hooked it into the 
community scripts
 repo and it crawls the curated repo and transforms .json files there into Note Buddy .json files that allow the tool to have 400 templates with service names and their icons, website links, default ports & default config locations which is pretty cool.
You can see these when you click in the search field and start typing a solution name. 
Searching the templates for well known services
Here is an example of me choosing “docker” for the template and then modifying the host and the link for the host which I am setting to a portainer instance there. Also, I am adding the IP address here and using the custom notes field to add even more information.
Adding notes for a docker host management url and other information
Turning notes into structured metadata
The biggest shift for me was realizing that the Notes field can be more than a paragraph and it can have rich formatting which PVE Note Buddy helps with.
For example, imagine every VM in your cluster includes something like this in its notes and you can create templates that absolutely allow you to do this easily.
Environment: Production, Lab, Dev
Primary VLAN: 20
IP Address: 10.10.20.15
Role: DNS, Web, Kubernetes Worker
Owner: Brandon
Created: 2026-02-15
Notes field containing additional information for understanding a virtual machine
Now when you click into any VM, you immediately see its purpose and context. You do not have to guess or check three different tabs. You do not have to look in your external documentation tools. it is just found right in the notes field in your PVE interface which is right at your fingertips.
PVE Note Buddy makes it realistic to enforce that kind of structure across your entire cluster with all your VM resources. This makes it awesome and goes from “nice to have” to something that is a tool you can rely on 
every day
. Note the following features of using PVE Note Buddy:
Fully client-side and lightweight
One-click HTML output ready for Proxmox Notes
Live preview that matches the PVE web UI
Large built-in service template library
SVG logo support with offline capability
Optional external image resizing
Native self-hosted icon support
Structured fields for VM, network, and config details
Custom section with Markdown and HTML support
Flexible layout and styling controls
Import and export your saved templates
Exporting and importing templates
Another call out here I think that is 
powerful is the fact that you can 
save
 your template. When you save a template, you export all the formatting and its current text, etc to a file that allows you to import this and use it when you want to or for another set of VM resources down the road.
Export and import pve note buddy templates
Is the tool perfect?
No, I do think it is a little rough around the edges, but it is certainly a tool that is evolving. I think what the developer has done here is pretty neat and definitely a 
project that is helpful for your PVE home lab
 and making much better use of the notes field which for most is a pretty neglected tool.
Also, currently, there is no 
automatic
 updating of notes in PVE from this tool. I first thought that is what its purpose was, but when it comes down to what it does, it gives you an easy and very quick way to format your notes like you want them to look and it takes the heavy lifting out of bringing in common information like project logos, config file locations, and other general information where this is all right at your fingertips and you don’t have to come up with the formatting and HTML to make it look as good as it does with PVE Note Buddy.
Why not just use an external documentation tool?
Does PVE Note Buddy totally replace your external documentation tools? No it doesn’t and in fact I think everyone should have external documentation stored in git (Markdown, compose code, internal documentation systems, diagrams, etc).
But when you embed the documentation close to where the workload lives, this makes it super useful and reduces friction. If you are like me, have you skipped looking up documentation just because you didn’t want to go through the effort of clicking out of where you are and into another tool and searching for it? 
With this, the note is right there with the VM, you don’t have to look it up somewhere else. So, PVE Note Buddy doesn’t replace your current documentation system and probably is not going to be as powerful as that. But I think for the critical details of your environment, it places it right where you can benefit the quickest from that information.
Wrapping up
One of the things that I appreciate about PVE Note Buddy is that it isn’t trying to be everything. It is simply trying to give us a way to better use a very underutilized tool in 
Proxmox VE Server
. I think it solves this problem very well and fits into the Proxmox community ecosystem in a good way.
Also, I think most will appreciate there is nothing they have to install in on their 
Proxmox VE
 Server or in their cluster that makes this work. You simply copy and paste information into the Notes field which is nice. Now, would it be incredibly cool if there were a way for the tool to be told to dynamically update the notes filed in Proxmox based on tags or VM names? Yes that would be very cool, but not until we can self-host the solution in the home lab. What about you? Have you tried PVE Note Buddy yet? Are you currently using the notes field? Would this be something you would try with this solution?
Add as a preferred source on Google
Google is updating how articles are shown. Don’t miss our leading home lab and tech content, written by humans, by setting 
Virtualization Howto as a preferred source
.
About The Author
Brandon Lee
Brandon Lee is the Senior Writer, Engineer and owner at Virtualizationhowto.com, and a 7-time VMware vExpert, with over two decades of experience in Information Technology. Having worked for numerous Fortune 500 companies as well as in various industries, He has extensive experience in various IT segments and is a strong advocate for open source technologies. Brandon holds many industry certifications, loves the outdoors and spending time with family. Also, he goes through the effort of testing and troubleshooting issues, so you don't have to.
See author's posts
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Proxmox
Tagged 
proxmox
Post navigation
5 Home Lab VLAN Mistakes That Will Break Your Network in 2026
PegaProx Now Adds Built-In ESXi Migration and Proxmox Backup Monitoring
Related Posts
Proxmox iSCSI target to Synology NAS
Not long ago, I wrote a quick blog post detailing how to install Proxmox inside a VMware virtual machine. However, to really play around with the hypervisor, it is great…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Proxmox VLAN Configuration: Management IP, Bridge, and Virtual Machines
If you are running VLANs in your network, you may want your Proxmox VE management IP on your management VLAN, or you may need to connect your virtual machines to…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Is This the vCenter Experience Proxmox Has Been Missing? Meet ProxCenter
One of the thing that a LOT of VMware vSphere admins feel like they are missing is the vCenter-like experience when they move over to Proxmox. This is where they…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
4.7
3
votes
Article Rating
Subscribe
Connect with
 Login
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Notify of 
new follow-up comments
new replies to my comments
Label
Name*
Email*
Connect with
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Label
Name*
Email*
3
 Comments                    
Oldest
Newest
Most Voted
 Inline Feedbacks                    
View all comments
JangaJones

    2 months ago

Hey Brandon, thanks a lot for your review, the write up and also the extensive testing! Been digging through your YouTube channel for a while now, so I’m more than humbled that my tool got covered on your blog!

More features to come, real local deployment with API calls to Proxmox is something that maybe (I can say with like 10% certainty) will come later down the line, but for now I want to focus on usability and security first, which means cloning the repo and just opening the .html locally will be the only way to have a local experience in the meantime. I want to keep PVE Note Buddy a tool completely separate from Proxmox in the first place – mainly for the security aspect. Let’s just see where the project is heading, I definitely want to stay away from “enshittification” and keep everything simple, fast & easy to use.
1
Reply
Brandon Lee
Author

    Reply to 
    

        JangaJones
    

    2 months ago

JangaJones,
Thanks so much for the comment and the kind words. I really appreciate that! Awesome tool for the community and one that I have added to my arsenal of very cool Proxmox tools and utilities that are super helpful. I totally understand about possibly leaving the tool as is from the standpoint of integration with Proxmox. I can see the downsides of doing this for security, etc. But I will definitely be keeping an eye on the tool as it evolves. Reach out any time and keep me posted on any new features you decide to implement 👍
1
Reply
JangaJones

    Reply to 
    

        Brandon Lee
    

    2 months ago

Sounds great, definitely will keep you updated! Thanks a lot again for checking it out! 🙂
0
Reply
Proxmox Server Build Components
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Minisforum BD795M
RackChoice 2U Micro ATX Compact
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
Noctua NH-L9i-17xx, Low-Profile CPU Cooler
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Crucial 96GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Intel X520-DA2 10 GbE Network Adapter
Kingston 240GB Drive for Boot
Samsung 990 Pro 2TB
MX-4 Thermal Paste
Gaming/Proxmox Build 2025
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Thermaltake Tower 200
Minisforum BD790i X3D
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Arctic P12 Slim Fan
PNY NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5080 OC
Predator 1TB NVMe Boot Drive
Samsung 990 Pro 4TB – VM Storage
Copyright © 2026 
Virtualization Howto
wpDiscuz
Insert
%d