Microsoft releases the earliest DOS source code ever discovered as open source | TechSpot
User login
User icon
Login
Search
A search icon
TechSpot
The word TechSpot
Trending
How Much RAM
Most Anticipated Games
DLSS 4.5 vs FSR 4
Ryzen Best Feature
Google Chrome
Radeon 9070 XT Roundup
Reviews
Outstanding
CPU
Graphics Cards
Monitors
PC Buying Guide
Software
Gaming Benchmarks
Features
Tech Culture
Must Reads
Legends of Tech
Explainers
Hardware
Gaming
Downloads
Software Essentials
Popular Apps
Chrome
VMWare
Minecraft
Device Drivers
PS3 Firmware
The Best
Best GPUs
Best Gaming Monitors
Best Monitors
Best SSD
Best Tablets
Best Mouse
Best PC Games
Tech DB
CPU Database
Top Multi-core CPUs
Fastest Gaming CPUs
GPU Database
Fastest GPUs
Product Finder
Search
Forums
Join TechSpot Elite
New Forum Posts
Software
Microsoft
ms-dos
open source
Microsoft releases the earliest DOS source code ever discovered as open source
Redmond needed an OS, Tim Paterson joined the fray, and the rest is history

 By 
Alfonso Maruccia
April 30, 2026 at 2:21 PM

 Serving tech enthusiasts for over 25 years.
 
 TechSpot means tech analysis and advice 
you can trust
.
 
Editor's take:
 Microsoft continues to tightly control the release of some of its most important pieces of legacy software. While enthusiasts and programmers are eager to see newer versions of MS-DOS made available, Redmond remains focused on preserving early DOS releases, which offer limited value for future development efforts. 
Microsoft has officially released another significant piece of DOS history. The "
Paterson Listings
" include the earliest known source code related to the DOS platform ever discovered, the company 
explained
, providing scanned listings and several transcribed portions that have been converted into compilable source code.
Tim Paterson's DOS listings continue the "tradition" Microsoft began a few years ago, when the company released MS-DOS 1.25 and 2.11 as open-source code. More recently, in 2024, Redmond shared the source code and floppy disk images for 
MS-DOS 4.0
, although that release was somewhat marred by 
execution issues
.
The new open-source repository includes code for the 86-DOS 1.00 kernel, development snapshots of the PC-DOS 1.00 kernel, and core utilities such as CHKDSK. The repository also includes assembler listings, as well as materials that can be used to build a working copy of the assembler itself.
Microsoft explained that "this work offers rare insight into how MS-DOS/PC-DOS came to be, and how operating system development was done at the time, not as it was later reconstructed."
Paterson is the computer programmer who created 86-DOS, an early operating system for the Intel 8086 microprocessor designed to emulate the application programming interface of Gary Kildall's CP/M. Microsoft acquired 86-DOS, using the foundational technology to build its own command-line operating system. The code shared on GitHub eventually became MS-DOS, which IBM sold as PC-DOS alongside its personal computer systems.
Microsoft highlights that the newly preserved listings include both source code and handwritten notes preserved by Paterson himself. Together, the code and scanned documents trace a timeline of development, showing feature implementation, coding errors, and subsequent bug fixes. Thanks to Paterson's involvement, the material will soon become "living" artifacts at the 
Interim Computer Museum
.
// Related Stories

 DR-DOS is coming back from the dead, rebuilt from scratch in pure assembly 

 Open-source project wants to bring stereoscopic 3D gaming back from the dead 
According to Microsoft OSPO Director Stacey Haffner and Microsoft/GitHub VP Scott Hanselman, this kind of software archaeology requires significant effort, including legal vetting, archival work, and technical validation. It also involves a team of specialists dedicated to computer history and digital preservation.
This may also help explain why Microsoft has not released any "modern" versions of MS-DOS, such as MS-DOS 5.0 or 6.22. Several developers are now working to resurrect or emulate early PC operating systems and their 
alternatives
, while the 
FreeDOS team
 would likely benefit from access to Redmond's "official" codebase to improve compatibility and reliability with classic DOS applications and games.

 3 comments
 
36 likes and shares
Share this article:
Featured on TechSpot
Microsoft admits Windows lost its way, Nadella pledges to "win back fans"
"Windows K2" plan promises faster UX, fewer botched updates
Most Popular
AI images are getting harder to spot, but physics still gives them away if you know where to look
The Best Ultrawide Gaming Monitors 2026
The Best CPUs: Gaming, Productivity, and the Best Bang for Your Buck
This Early Access pirate game was quietly killing your SSD without you knowing
Load Comments 
3
...

 User Comments: 
3

 Got something to say? Post a comment
 
Load all comments...
Discuss
24
California just gave police a way to ticket Waymo and other robotaxis
34
Gen Z is turning subscriptions into short-term rentals for shows, movies, and games
58
Denuvo may have reached the end as every protected PC game is now crackable
17
Utah just passed the first US law targeting VPN use for age verification
8
SpaceX will help power Claude with 220,000 Nvidia GPUs despite Elon's attacks on Anthropic
Recently commented stories
Jump to forum mode
Add your comment to this article
Create your free account to leave a comment. Join thousands of tech enthusiasts and participate.
TechSpot Account
Sign up for free
, it takes 30 seconds.
 
Already have an account? 
Login now
.
 
Main Sections
Tech News
Reviews
Features
Downloads
The Best
Tech DB
Product Finder
News Archive
Popular Features
How Much RAM Do You Need?
Most Anticipated Games of 2026
 
The Best GPUs
Nvidia DLSS 4.5 vs AMD FSR 4
Is This Ryzen's Best Feature?
Anatomy of a Storage Drive
Windows 11 25H2 vs Windows 10
Essential Apps for Windows and macOS
Top Downloads
Google Chrome
VMware Download Free
Minecraft Free Download
Cinebench Download
Roblox Download
PS3 Firmware
Play Store Download
Tiny11 Download
Subscribe to the TechSpot Newsletter
Follow TechSpot
About
Ethics Statement
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Manage Ad Consent
TECHSPOT : Tech Enthusiasts, Power Users, Gamers
TechSpot is a registered trademark and may not be used by third parties without express written permission.
TechSpot is represented by 
Future PLC
. Learn about 
advertising opportunities
.
© 1998 - 2026 TechSpot, Inc. All Rights Reserved.