The 7 Proxmox Commands I Use Constantly in My Home Lab - Virtualization Howto
Skip to content
YouTube
Twitter
LinkedIn
GitHub
Facebook
Discord
Pinterest
Virtualization Howto
Virtualization, Cloud, DevOps, Reviews
Search for:
Subscribe
Forum
My kits
Home Lab NAS Kits
Intel Optane Swap Kit
VMware Compatible Mini PCs
Podcast
DevOps
Virtualization
Proxmox
VMware
Hyper-V
XCP-ng
Containers
Kubernetes
Mini PC & Server
Home Lab
My Home Lab
Nested ESXi Lab
Proxmox Build 2025
About
Contact
Disclaimer
E-books
Privacy
Newsletter
3
Home
2026
March
The 7 Proxmox Commands I Use Constantly in My Home Lab
The 7 Proxmox Commands I Use Constantly in My Home Lab
March 13, 2026
March 13, 2026
by Brandon Lee
With all the great GUI platforms and third-party and community tools we have for Proxmox, you might think there would never be a need to visit the command line in Proxmox and instead troubleshoot everything and configure everything from the GUI. In my own lab, I run a multi-node Proxmox cluster that is backed by Ceph storage. Over time, I have found myself relying on a 
core set of commands
 that I run on a daily basis. Let’s look at the 7 Proxmox commands I am using daily in my home lab.
pvecm status
This is absolutely one of the most important command line commands you can know if you are running a Proxmox cluster which many get into doing in the home lab if they have multiple Proxmox nodes/mini PCs. 
The 
pvecm status
 command shows the current health and membership of the 
Proxmox cluster
. I really like to use this command extensively if I have rebooted hosts or about to perform maintenance on one of the hosts in the cluster. I don’t like to do anything if there is already a problem in the cluster. Running this command and noting the output will help you to know the cluster is healthy and in a good place to 
pvecm status
Below is the typical output of a healthy cluster. You can see that it shows the quorum status of the cluster, how many votes are expected, how many are currently given, the number for quorum, etc.
Pvecm status command
The output provides several important pieces of information, including:
cluster name
quorum status
number of nodes
vote count
cluster membership
This command is extremely helpful because it immediately tells you whether the cluster has quorum and which nodes are participating in the cluster. This can be eye opening if there is an issue, etc.
If quorum is lost, many 
cluster operations
 stop working correctly. For example, migrations and configuration changes may fail. Running this command is a way to quickly confirm if the cluster is communicating between nodes like it should be.
Another command that is often used alongside it is:
pvecm nodes
This gives you a more simplified view of the cluster nodes and their status. 
Pvecm nodes
In a multi node home lab this can quickly show you if one of your nodes has dropped out of the cluster.
ceph -s
If you are running Ceph for your shared storage in your Proxmox environment, the 
ceph -s
 (short for the ceph status) command is the number one tool that you will want to know to run and check out the health of your distributed storage.
Example command:
ceph -s
Below is a sample output from my Proxmox mini cluster running Ceph storage:
Ceph s command showing your distributed storage status
This command gives you a quick overview of the entire Ceph cluster and its current health state.
The output will include:
cluster health
monitor status
number of OSDs
placement group health
recovery activity
data usage
A healthy cluster will typically show:
health: HEALTH_OK
If something needs attention, you may see messages such as:
HEALTH_WARN
or
HEALTH_ERR
In those cases the output will usually include details explaining the issue or the event that led to the status being what it is currently.
For anyone running Proxmox with Ceph shared storage, this command is one of the fastest ways to confirm that the storage cluster is functioning like it needs to be. If something doesn’t look right with VM disks or performance, this is often the first place to check if you are running 
Ceph for your virtual machine storage
.
pvesm status
The next command I frequently run is 
pvesm status
. This is the command that shows the status of storage backends configured within Proxmox.
Example command:
pvesm status
Pvesm status command
The output provides an overview of all storage resources that Proxmox is aware of.
For example:
Name       Type     Status     Total       Used       Available
local      dir      active     100G        35G        65G
local-lvm  lvmthin  active     500G        200G       300G
ceph-vm    rbd      active     2.0T        1.1T       900G
This command is useful for several different reasons. First, it lets you know that storage backends are active and reachable from the node. If a storage system becomes unavailable, it will often appear here as inactive.
Second, it gives you a quick view of the available capacity across your 
storage pools
. This can help you prevent situations where a datastore fills up unexpectedly.
And lastly, it is a quick troubleshooting step when VM disks appear to be inaccessible or when migrations fail due to storage issues.
qm list
I am constantly doing things with VMs running in Proxmox. The 
qm 
command is the primary tool that you use to manage KVM virtual machines from the Proxmox command line. The one command that is super useful in this toolset is the 
qm list
 command. 
Example command:
qm list
This displays a list of all virtual machines on the node you are connected to along with their current status.
Typical output looks like this:
VMID   NAME         STATUS     MEM(MB)   BOOTDISK(GB)   PID
100    docker01     running    4096      40             21341
101    gitlab01     stopped    8192      80             0
102    k8s-node01   running    4096      60             33212
Below is an output on one of my Proxmox nodes.
Running the qm list command in proxmox to see virtual machines
This command is extremely useful because it lets you quickly see which VMs are running and which are stopped. The main thing it gives you is the VM IDs. These are important to get since you need the IDs and these are required for many other commands such as:
qm start 100
qm stop 100
qm config 100
When you have a larger environment where you have multiple nodes that are running many virtual machines, this command becomes very helpful to identify specific workloads. But, I don’t want it to sound like it is only needed in large environments. I use the command when querying virtual machines in things like CI/CD in the home lab and getting IDs programmatically so you can then use that information for another action.
pct list
In the same respect, just like virtual machines, you can get a listing of your LXC containers. LXC containers are extremely popular to run in Proxmox and are basically extremely lightweight operating system containers that are used to run very small services efficiently without the “resource spend” that you would have on a full virtual machine in the home lab.
The command used to manage containers is 
pct
. To see the containers you have running on a node, you can run:
pct list
Pct list option for the pct command
The output will show container IDs and their status.
Example output:
VMID   Status     Name
200    running    nginx
201    stopped    monitoring
202    running    home-assistant
Just like with VMs, the 
container
 ID is important for performing operations like starting or stopping your containers.
Here are a few examples:
pct start 200
pct stop 200
pct exec 200 bash
For home labs that run many lightweight services in LXC containers, this is a command that can be a part of your daily workflow.
pveperf
This is another useful command that goes through a quick performance check on your node. It is simple to use and gives you insights into things like CPU and storage performance.
Here is an example command:
pveperf
The output of that command may look like this:
CPU BOGOMIPS:      96000
REGEX/SECOND:      1400000
HD SIZE:           1000.00 GB
BUFFERED READS:    800 MB/sec
AVERAGE SEEK TIME: 0.25 ms
Running pveperf command on one of my proxmox nodes
The most important value here is usually the average seek time. This gives you at least a rough idea of disk latency.
Typical things you will see on the output of this command are:
spinning disks have higher seek times
SSDs have much lower seek times
NVMe drives are even faster
This command can be useful when diagnosing slow disk performance or verifying that storage hardware is functioning as expected.
It is also helpful when you need to 
test new hardware or confirm that your storage performance
 looks good.
qm unlock
You will have a time every once in a while where a task will get stuck or fail to complete whatever it is trying to do. Whether this is something like a VM migration, backup, or another type of task. If this happens, the VM may get to be in a locked state. 
When a VM is locked, operations such as start or stop may fail with messages saying the VM configuration is locked.
The command used to remove a lock is:
qm unlock <vmid>
Qm unlock command for a pve host
So like the following:
qm unlock 101
Where do you get the ID to unlock? You guessed it. By using the qm list command as we mentioned earlier. When you run the unlock command, this clears the lock on the VM configuration and allows operations to then proceed normally.
It is important to only run this command when you are sure that the original task is no longer running. If a task is still active, removing the lock could cause problems. But usually you are going to know if something is hung if it has been stuck for a while on a task that normally tasks only a few seconds. Before unlocking a VM, it can be helpful to check running tasks using:
ps aux | grep qm
This will help you to confirm that no operations are still in progress. But, in my experience in using Proxmox in the home lab, this command can be a lifesaver when dealing with interrupted migrations or failed backup jobs as examples.
Why take the time to learn a few CLI commands in Proxmox?
I think this is a question like anything. To be well-rounded when troubleshooting and having the best set of tools that are needed to get the right information, the CLI is almost always a good idea to know and know well in addition to the GUI interfaces and dashboards. Check out my other post of other 
10 Proxmox CLI commands
 for ultimate control.
One of the strengths of Proxmox VE is that it provides both a powerful web interface and a very capable command line interface with lots of helpful commands. Many administrators rely heavily on the UI, but knowing a handful of CLI commands can make managing your environment much faster and more helpful for quickly diagnosing things.
The commands we have covered here allow you to check the most important parts of your environment:
cluster health
storage status
Ceph health
virtual machine status
container status
node performance
And as I have already alluded to, another advantage is automation. Many of these commands can be integrated into your scripts scripts. Also, these are helpful with monitoring tools, or automation workflows such as you might want to configure in CI/CD pipelines. This makes it easier to build powerful tooling around your 
Proxmox cluster
.
Wrapping up
What do you think about the commands we have mentioned here? Are you using a specific set of Proxmox commands that you find to be helpful that are not on the above list? Please share with us in the comments. In the meantime, these commands are simple and easy and they are basic enough that they are not super hard to remember. 
Add as a preferred source on Google
Google is updating how articles are shown. Don’t miss our leading home lab and tech content, written by humans, by setting 
Virtualization Howto as a preferred source
.
About The Author
Brandon Lee
Brandon Lee is the Senior Writer, Engineer and owner at Virtualizationhowto.com, and a 7-time VMware vExpert, with over two decades of experience in Information Technology. Having worked for numerous Fortune 500 companies as well as in various industries, He has extensive experience in various IT segments and is a strong advocate for open source technologies. Brandon holds many industry certifications, loves the outdoors and spending time with family. Also, he goes through the effort of testing and troubleshooting issues, so you don't have to.
See author's posts
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Proxmox
Tagged 
home lab
, 
proxmox
Post navigation
Why Mini PC Clusters Are Taking Over Home Labs
I Added an eGPU to My Proxmox Mini PC Home Lab Using OCuLink (Here’s What Happened)
Related Posts
NAKIVO Proxmox Backup in v10.11 New Features
Well, in a move that makes it one of the first (if not THE first) commercial backup vendor to offer support for Proxmox Backup and data protection, NAKIVO Backup &…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Proxmox Backup Server Settings I Wish I Knew Earlier
If you are getting into running Proxmox and backing up your Proxmox environment using Proxmox Backup Server, which is a great way to back up your Proxmox environment. It has…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Mount Synology Drive in Proxmox with NFS
Mounting your NAS storage inside of Proxmox is a great way to add storage to your Proxmox VE Server for things like storing ISO images and other purposes, even running…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
0
0
votes
Article Rating
Subscribe
Connect with
 Login
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Notify of 
new follow-up comments
new replies to my comments
Label
Name*
Email*
Connect with
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Label
Name*
Email*
5
 Comments                    
Oldest
Newest
Most Voted
 Inline Feedbacks                    
View all comments

    Christopher


    1 month ago

Am I just too tired, or is ‘pvecm status’ listed twice?
0
Reply
Brandon Lee
Author

    Reply to 
    

        Christopher
    

    1 month ago

Christopher,
Thanks for the comment! It looks very similar but it is actually pvecm and pvesm status commands. The good thing about them being so close is that it helps to remember one or the other.
Brandon
0
Reply

    Christopher


    Reply to 
    

        Brandon Lee
    

    1 month ago

Brandon,
Thanks for the clarification. And thanks for all the good articles about Proxmox, I’ve got a very nice two node cluster racked and working nicely, with Heimdall, Tududi, Portainer, nginx, pihole, OMV, WordPress, Homebox, Papra, Uptime Kuma, Cacti, and Mealie. And homeassistant on a separate box.
I have not yet enabled Tailscale or put any of this onto the internet. The security implications of that are scary.
-Christopher
0
Reply
Brandon Lee
Author

    Reply to 
    

        Christopher
    

    1 month ago

Christopher,
Very nice! What are you using for your hardware in the two node cluster? Are you using an external Qdevice for quorum? I need to check out two-node configs more in Proxmox, definitely something I want to explore. Love the variety of apps you have running as well. Very cool. Keep up the good work building.
Brandon
0
Reply

    Christopher


    Reply to 
    

        Brandon Lee
    

    1 month ago

The first node is a GMKtec Mini PC Computers N95(Turbo 3.4GHz) 16GB DDR4 512GB SSD with an added 4T internal SSD. The second node is BOSGAME E5, Ryzen 3 5300U 4-core 8-Thread, 16GB DDR4 1TB PCIe with an 8T external hard drive for local backups in addition to cloud backups. The two nodes are very different machines, but seem to play nicely. 
There is no quorum (except my judgement). I have an old Mac Mini I might setup as a third node, although I am not sure what to use it for, perhaps Frigate. I might add a PI4 just to host may DNS (Pi-Hole) and maybe Nginx Proxy manager on the same CPU so the basic infrastructure is on separate hardware from the applications. ProxMox Backup Server is running as a VM, which isn’t ideal, but I don’t know where else to put it except maybe my workstation (Intel iMac).
I am not trying for 99.999% uptime since the only people using this system are me and my family so a bit of downtime is not a crisis. I have no RAID, Ceph, ZFS or high-availability setup; I don’t have high end machines for Ceph or ZFS. I depend on backups to restore from disasters.
Right now, I am focussing on security, since I might expose some services to the internet. I’ve got HTTPS working for all apps. I need to setup firewalls to block regular http access and I am looking into VLAN configuration to further isolate anything that can be accessed from outside. All my passwords are 37 character UUIDs. I don’t want uninvited guests.
If I open this up, I would make my internet browser point into an isolated DMZ. I aim still considering options for how to setup the DMZ, but it would probably just contain a reverse proxy on a VLAN forwarding traffic to a higher security zone with my apps. At least that is my current plan.
0
Reply
Proxmox Server Build Components
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Minisforum BD795M
RackChoice 2U Micro ATX Compact
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
Noctua NH-L9i-17xx, Low-Profile CPU Cooler
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Crucial 96GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Intel X520-DA2 10 GbE Network Adapter
Kingston 240GB Drive for Boot
Samsung 990 Pro 2TB
MX-4 Thermal Paste
Gaming/Proxmox Build 2025
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Thermaltake Tower 200
Minisforum BD790i X3D
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Arctic P12 Slim Fan
PNY NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5080 OC
Predator 1TB NVMe Boot Drive
Samsung 990 Pro 4TB – VM Storage
Copyright © 2026 
Virtualization Howto
wpDiscuz
Insert
%d