I’m a cybersecurity professional, here’s why I’m preparing for an AI data breach | TechRadar
Skip to main content
Tech Radar
Tech Radar Pro
Tech Radar Gaming
Open menu
Close main menu
TechRadar
the business technology experts
NZ Edition
Asia

Singapore

Europe

Danmark

Suomi

Norge

Sverige

UK

Italia

Nederland

België (Nederlands)

France

Deutschland

España

North America

US (English)

Canada

México

Australasia

Australia

New Zealand

RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search TechRadar

News


Reviews


Features


Perspectives


Website builders


Web hosting


Security

Don't miss these
Pro
The fake Rolex problem: How AI turned amateur attackers into nation-state threats
Pro
Shadow AI and agents like OpenClaw are hijacking corporate data too easily
Pro
The blueprint architecture for securing the AI data center
Security
Weak safeguards leave thousands of AI agents open to attack
Pro
Many firms don't know what their workers are sharing with AI tools
Pro
Trust by design: How much can you really trust your AI agent
Pro
AI tools have made vulnerability exploitation faster and easier
Pro
Why NIST’s AI agent standards initiative is a turning point for enterprise security
Pro
Tame your AI gremlins before the chaos becomes permanent
Security
Over 29 million secrets were leaked on GitHub in 2025, and AI really isn't helping
Pro
It’s time cyber security understood human behavior and acted accordingly
Pro
The mobile app traffic your security team can't see — and AI agents are generating it
Pro
Testing AI is not like testing software and most companies haven't figured that out yet
Pro
Governing the hidden risks of generative AI in the enterprise
Pro
Your OpenClaw agents can empty your inbox and leak your data. Here's how to secure them
Tech Radar Pro
Are you a pro? Subscribe to our newsletter
Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed!
Become a Member in Seconds
 Unlock instant access to exclusive member features.

Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands


Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors

There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again.

By submitting your information you agree to the 
Terms & Conditions
 and 
Privacy Policy
 and are aged 16 or over.

You are now subscribed
Your newsletter sign-up was successful
Join the club
Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards.
Explore
 An account already exists for this email address, please log in.
Trending
Best office chairs
Best 3D printers
Best antivirus
Best web hosting
Best website builder
Pro
I’m a cybersecurity professional, here’s why I’m preparing for an AI data breach
Opinion

By

Mike Kosak

published

15 March 2026
Today's threat of a third-party data vendor breach

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. 
Here’s how it works
.

(Image credit: Blue Planet Studio/Shutterstock)

Copy link


Facebook


X


Whatsapp


Reddit


Pinterest


Flipboard


Threads


Email


Share this article

0

Join the conversation


Follow us


Add us as a preferred source on Google


Newsletter


Subscribe to our newsletter

Recently, OpenAI acknowledged a 
security
 breach at a third-party data analytics vendor that led to the exposure of some of its API users’ personal information, including email addresses, names, and browser details.
The incident on its own underscores the continuing issues surrounding supply chain targeting the risks of third-party data exposure but beyond that, the incident serves as a potential shot across the bow for the 
cybersecurity
 community and the broader public in general.
Mike Kosak
Social Links Navigation
Director of Threat Intelligence at LastPass.
Treasure trove of data
AI companies are a treasure trove of data. Not just the data the models are trained on or even the intellectual property involved in the actual technology- AI can be viewed akin to Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) as repositories for a massive amount and variety of 
customer
-provided data.
Article continues below 
Watch full video here: AI Planned It, Ep 2 
Latest Videos From TechRadar
AI Planned It, Ep 2
0 seconds of 1 minute, 29 seconds
Volume 0%
Press shift question mark to access a list of keyboard shortcuts
Keyboard Shortcuts
Enabled
Disabled
Shortcuts Open/Close
/ or ?
Play/Pause
SPACE
Increase Volume
↑
Decrease Volume
↓
Seek Forward
→
Seek Backward
←
Captions On/Off
c
Fullscreen/Exit Fullscreen
f
Mute/Unmute
m
Decrease Caption Size
-
Increase Caption Size
+ or =
Seek %
0-9
Next Up
ExplAIned- Apple Intelligence Vs Galaxy AI
01:27
 facebook
 x
 reddit
 Link
https://cdn.jwplayer.com/previews/79oyTozo
Copied
Live
00:00
01:29
0:46
More Videos
01:29
AI Planned It, Ep 2
01:27
ExplAIned- Apple Intelligence Vs Galaxy AI
01:29
ChatGPT vs. Claude
01:30
AI Planned It, Ep 1- PC Build
Close

            You may like
        
Confronting AI’s data privacy paradox
Securing AI infrastructure is critical – here's how to do it
Friend or foe? AI: The new cybersecurity threat and solutions
As we saw in the late 2010s, nation-states and other threat actors increased their targeting of CSPs to maximize their return on investment, and it is a matter of time until we see a major breach of one of the AI companies and the accompanying exposure of personal and proprietary data.
The 
data
 is too attractive, and threat actors are too capable.
This isn’t to take anything away from the security programs at these companies; on the contrary, there is no doubt that, particularly among the most advanced firms that would draw the biggest interest among threat actors, the security programs are world-class and incredibly well-resourced and operated, but it’s the classic issue of defenders need to be right all the time and attackers only need to be right once.
Secure by design
To be clear, this isn’t even taking into consideration the recent security issues identified within Moltbook after it was rapidly adopted in the last few weeks, including major vulnerabilities independently discovered by both Wiz, as captured in their excellent blog post, and Jameson O’Reilly which were highlighted by 404 Media.
Are you a pro? Subscribe to our newsletter
Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed!
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the 
Terms & Conditions
 and 
Privacy Policy
 and are aged 16 or over.
While Moltbook is the focus of these recent reports, the issues arising from insecure development of AI tools - especially as the capabilities and technology proliferate - are much larger and more distressing, and they deserve their own analysis.
These issues go back to an overarching emphasis on speed of implementation, an overreliance on 
vibe coding
, and a fundamental lack of implementation of the “secure-by-design” mantra that is creating security issues that threat actors will most certainly leverage. But again, that’s another topic… back to the issue at hand.
What makes a potential large-scale breach of a major AI firm so unique is the variety and sensitivity of the data. Many companies don’t even realize some of their most sensitive data may have already been shared via their 
employees
.

            What to read next
        
Shadow AI and agents like OpenClaw are hijacking corporate data too easily
Always-on AI Agents put everything hackers could ever want behind a single attack surface
AI powers innovation – but it’s also powering the next wave of cyber attacks
According to a study earlier this year from Harmonic, 45.4% of company’s sensitive data submissions into AI apps came from personal accounts and Varonis found 99% of organizations have sensitive data exposed to 
AI tools
, including unsanctioned apps.
Combine this data with deeply personal information individuals are sharing with AI chatbots, including asking questions that have later been used in criminal cases and leveraging AI for mental health and therapy-like discussions.
The potential for extortion and blackmail becomes a concern as well, particularly among those who may feel pressure to avoid going to therapists or reporting mental health concerns, such as those in intelligence, first responders, or the military.
People are viewing AI chatbots as a safe place to share their thoughts and questions while maintaining a sense of anonymity when this may not be the case, particularly in the long-term.
Enforcing robust AI
I raise these concerns not to be a naysayer or a Cassandra, but in hopes of preparing the larger AI customer base for the inevitable so that they can take the appropriate steps now before something happens.
This means examining their risk appetite, be it personal, professional, or organizational, for that they are willing to share with AI and let be stored in perpetuity on third-party servers that are viewed as rich targets. This means users should examine what, if any, sensitive data they are comfortable sharing with an external organization.
For companies, which often have data classification policies, this is easier to do. For personal users, this can be more difficult. Once this examination is complete, it means taking steps to adjust behavior, again either personal or organizational, to align with that risk appetite.
This may mean developing, implementing, and (most importantly) enforcing robust AI use policies within your company. This may also mean researching 
chatbots
 before leveraging them for asking personal and/or sensitive questions that you may not want to have out in the open in the event of a large breach.
Major breach
AI and its continuing rapid development obviously have some amazing and wonderful implications for companies and individuals alike. But these companies’ place as highly-prized targets for advanced threat actors means it is almost certainly just a matter of time until a major breach occurs.
Best for users to consider now what data they would like to avoid being exposed in the event of a major breach by refraining from submitting it in the first place.
We've featured the best encryption software.
This article was produced as part of TechRadarPro's Expert Insights channel where we feature the best and brightest minds in the technology industry today. The views expressed here are those of the author and are not necessarily those of TechRadarPro or Future plc. If you are interested in contributing find out more here: 
https://www.techradar.com/news/submit-your-story-to-techradar-pro
TOPICS

AI

Mike Kosak
Social Links Navigation
Senior Principal Intelligence Analyst at LastPass.
View More
You must confirm your public display name before commenting
Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name.

Logout

Read more
Pro
Confronting AI’s data privacy paradox
Pro
Securing AI infrastructure is critical – here's how to do it
Pro
Friend or foe? AI: The new cybersecurity threat and solutions
Pro
Shadow AI and agents like OpenClaw are hijacking corporate data too easily
Pro
Always-on AI Agents put everything hackers could ever want behind a single attack surface
Pro
AI powers innovation – but it’s also powering the next wave of cyber attacks
Latest in Pro
Pro
Large lithium discovery in Appalachia may reduce US reliance on foreign imports
Pro
Japanese researchers develop material to boost solar panel efficiency
Security
Microsoft phishing threat report shows 146% surge in quishing
Pro
New WordPress plugin could reduce AI data usage and energy consumption
Pro
Unlocking science: building AI researchers can trust
Security
FBI says hackers are making millions from stolen cargo - losses 'surged' to nearly $725 million in 2025
Latest in Opinion
Virtual Reality & Augmented Reality
I don't know if Vision Pro is dead, but it is still the most sophisticated, hardware Apple ever built
Pro
Unlocking science: building AI researchers can trust
Pro
AI tools have made vulnerability exploitation faster and easier
Pro
Why governance is moving to the middleware layer
Pro
When stability became strategy: the post-upgrade enterprise
Pro
We need a cybersecurity curriculum taught by hackers
Advertisement
Advertisement
LATEST ARTICLES
1
Norton VPN enters the AI agent space with 'first truly AI native' VPN for agents
2
Quordle hints and answers for Monday, May 4 (game #1561)
3
NYT Connections hints and answers for Monday, May 4 (game #1058)
4
NYT Strands hints and answers for Monday, May 4 (game #792)
5
'I don’t believe we’ll hit AGI' — Steve Wozniak explains his AI skepticism
Useful links
Best VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Web Hosting Service
Best Website Builder
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Gaming PC
Best PC Gaming Chair
Best Phone
Best TV
Best Oled TVs
Best Smartwatch
Best Turntables
Best Noise Cancelling Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Office Chairs
Best Camera
Best Dash Cam
Best Drones
Best Robot Vacuums

TechRadar is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. 
Visit our corporate site
.

Add as a preferred source on Google
About Us
Contact Future's experts
Contact Us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Advertise with us
Web notifications
Accessibility Statement
Careers
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 
Close

Please login or signup to comment

Please wait...

Login


Sign Up
