I Tried Traefik Manager in My Home Lab and It Makes Traefik Much Easier - Virtualization Howto
Skip to content
YouTube
Twitter
LinkedIn
GitHub
Facebook
Discord
Pinterest
Virtualization Howto
Virtualization, Cloud, DevOps, Reviews
Search for:
Subscribe
Forum
My kits
Home Lab NAS Kits
Intel Optane Swap Kit
VMware Compatible Mini PCs
Podcast
DevOps
Virtualization
Proxmox
VMware
Hyper-V
XCP-ng
Containers
Kubernetes
Mini PC & Server
Home Lab
My Home Lab
Nested ESXi Lab
Proxmox Build 2025
About
Contact
Disclaimer
E-books
Privacy
Newsletter
3
Home
2026
April
I Tried Traefik Manager in My Home Lab and It Makes Traefik Much Easier
I Tried Traefik Manager in My Home Lab and It Makes Traefik Much Easier
April 29, 2026
April 29, 2026
by Brandon Lee
If you have been running Traefik or you have thought about running Traefik, you probably fall into one of two schools of thought. You probably either love Traefik due to the fact that it is so “infrastructure as code” friendly. Or, you hate the fact that it doesn’t really have a GUI for configuration like Nginx Proxy Manager for easy configuration. Let’s face it. Managing 
YAML files
 for configuration, including routes, middlewares, TLS certificates, and services can be tedious. This is why I was really interested when I came across 
Traefik Manager
. It is a relatively new project that I think may change the game when it comes to managing Traefik. Let’s take a look at this new tool and see how you can get it running and managing your 
Traefik installation
.
What is Traefik Manager?
Traefik Manager
 is a self hosted web UI designed to simplify the management of Traefik. Instead of writing and maintaining configuration files manually, it gives you a graphical interface where you can create and manage routes, services, middlewares, and certificates. So if you have a 
Proxmox Server
 at home running containers with Traefik sitting in front, this will make the process of management and configuration much easier.
As you can see with the screenshot from the official GitHub repository, it is not just a static 
dashboard like the Traefik
 Dashboard that comes with Traefik. This is active in that you can do things like add routes.
Traefik manager dashboard
Under the hood, it integrates directly with Traefik’s API and configuration model. It does not replace Traefik. Instead, it acts as a management layer on top of it. The goal of this project is simple. It helps to make Traefik easier to use without changing what it does at its core.
Note the following features:
Manage routes and services from a web UI instead of editing labels or YAML
Create and reuse middlewares like redirects, auth, headers, and rate limits
View TLS certificates, expiration dates, and troubleshoot issues
Access logs and basic monitoring in the browser
Back up and restore your configuration
Secure the UI with OIDC and TOTP
Why I think Traefik Manager matters in a home lab
I think a lot of home labbers, especially those that are just beginning, are intimidated by Traefik. It is definitely not as user friendly as something like Nginx Proxy Manager from the start. I have definitely strongly recommended NPM in the past for those that are starting into their self-hosting journey and want to stand up a 
reverse proxy
 for SSL termination, etc.
Nginx Proxy Manager makes this a process of simply point and clicking your way through setting up your Proxy and SSL certs. With Traefik, there are more moving parts and pieces, like editing Docker labels, modifying configuration files, restarting services, and the logs are a bit more complicated to deal with.
I think a UI that is bolted onto Traefik can make that experience much better. Instead of you editing config YAML, you can add routes in just a couple of seconds, attach middleware, visualize your routing config, and also more quickly identify misconfigurations. 
For me this is something that really works well with how I manage and configure other parts of 
my home lab
. I like using tools like this that can help you get better visibility and speed in your management and configuration.
How Traefik manager works
Traefik Manager works by interacting with Traefik’s API and dynamic configuration system. Note the following overview diagram of how Traefik Manager “talks” to Traefik:
Traefik manager architecture
Things you need to have configured on the Traefik side
For Traefik Manager to work properly, your Traefik instance needs a few things enabled.
Here is a simplified example:
api:
  dashboard: true
  insecure: trueproviders:
  docker:
    exposedByDefault: falseentryPoints:
  web:
    address: ":80"
  websecure:
    address: ":443"
In a production or internet exposed environment, you should not leave the API insecure. Instead, secure it using authentication or limit access to internal networks.
Installing Traefik Manager with Docker compose
Let’s look at how to install Traefik Manager using Docker compose and see how we can stand it up in our environment.
Here is a basic example to get you up and running.
services:
  traefik-manager:
    image: ghcr.io/chr0nzz/traefik-manager:latest
    container_name: traefik-manager
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "5000:5000"
    environment:
      - TM_TRAEFIK_URL=http://traefik:8080
    volumes:
      - ./data:/app/data
A few important notes about this configuration:
TM_TRAEFIK_URL
 should point to your Traefik API endpoint
Make sure Traefik API is enabled in your 
Traefik configuration
Persist the 
/app/data
 directory so your configuration is not lost
Once you have your compose file ready, you can bring it up with:
docker compose up -d
Bringing up the traefik manager docker compose stack
After that, you should be able to access the UI at:
http://your-server-ip:5000
Setup wizard after bringing up the container
There is a short setup wizard that you will see when you bring up the Traefik Manager container. When you browse out to the address of your container host port 5000, login with the password provided in the logs for Traefik Manager. Then, you will see the following workflow. Click the 
Get started
 button.
Welcome to traefik manager setup workflow
The first box has you input the connection and domains information.
Connection and domains configuration
Next, you can 
configure a self-route to allow Traefik to route
 traeffic to this Traefik Manager instance. It creates a new YAML file in your config directory called 
traefik-manager-self.yml
.
Configuring a self route to traefik manager
Next, you can 
configure optional monitoring
. Here we can enable extra views for deeper insights into Traefik configuration. These are optional.
Configuring optional monitoring with traefik manager
Next, we are asked to change the admin password to something permanent. So, we don’t keep the autogenerated password in the docker logs long. We get it set at the end of the setup wizard.
Setting a new admin password
Once you set the password, you are taken to the default dashboard.
The default dashboard in traefik manager
Adding routes and middleware
Once you have Traefik Manager up and running, adding routes and Middleware are just a few clicks operation. Below, you can see the configuration dialog box after clicking to 
Add Route
.
Adding a route to traefik using the traefik manager
Below is adding middleware using the Traefik Manager. You will see a “Template” dropdown that has a whole list of predefined templates you can readily use in your configuration.
Adding middlewares using traefik manager
Pros and cons
Below are a few of the pros and cons to think about when using the Traefik Manager in your environment. It isn’t perfect, but definitely has benefits:
Pros
Cons
Makes Traefik much easier to manage
Adds another service to manage
Reduces manual YAML editing
Still a relatively new project
Provides visibility into routes and certificates
Depends on Traefik API being accessible
Speeds up troubleshooting
May not replace advanced configuration use cases
Adds backup and restore capabilities
Can be confusing to setup with the configuration
Supports modern authentication methods
Wrapping up
After testing out Traefik manager, I can say that it definitely feels like something that should have been there a long time ago. We all like managing using a GUI as it gives us a quick and easy way to look over everything at a very high level. I think it allows Traefik to still maintain all the strengths that it has in terms of infrastructure as code, but adds the right GUI that allows us to manage things the way that makes sense as well. How about you? Do you run Traefik in your home lab? Is this something that you would consider testing out?
Add as a preferred source on Google
Google is updating how articles are shown. Don’t miss our leading home lab and tech content, written by humans, by setting 
Virtualization Howto as a preferred source
.
About The Author
Brandon Lee
Brandon Lee is the Senior Writer, Engineer and owner at Virtualizationhowto.com, and a 7-time VMware vExpert, with over two decades of experience in Information Technology. Having worked for numerous Fortune 500 companies as well as in various industries, He has extensive experience in various IT segments and is a strong advocate for open source technologies. Brandon holds many industry certifications, loves the outdoors and spending time with family. Also, he goes through the effort of testing and troubleshooting issues, so you don't have to.
See author's posts
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Containers
Tagged 
home lab
, 
home server
Post navigation
Is Proxmox SDN Worth It for a Home Lab?
Proxmox Backup Server 4.2 Just Changed How I Do Offsite Backups
Related Posts
Kubernetes LXC Containers Configuration – Lab Setup
Building out a Kubernetes lab is a great way to learn the technology. I am a huge advocate of lab environments. Building out a Kubernetes lab can make use of…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Stop Using .env Files: Docker Secrets Made Easy with Doppler
One of the things that gets “hard” when you start caring about the security of your Docker containers is managing your secrets. It is a tricky bit that you need…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Docker Compose Static IP configuration
Use the web editor to paste in Docker Compose code
Like this:
Like
Loading…
0
0
votes
Article Rating
Subscribe
Connect with
 Login
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Notify of 
new follow-up comments
new replies to my comments
Label
Name*
Email*
Connect with
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Label
Name*
Email*
1
 Comment                    
Oldest
Newest
Most Voted
 Inline Feedbacks                    
View all comments

    Geir


    8 days ago

https://github.com/getvaier/vaier
0
Reply
Proxmox Server Build Components
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Minisforum BD795M
RackChoice 2U Micro ATX Compact
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
Noctua NH-L9i-17xx, Low-Profile CPU Cooler
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Crucial 96GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Intel X520-DA2 10 GbE Network Adapter
Kingston 240GB Drive for Boot
Samsung 990 Pro 2TB
MX-4 Thermal Paste
Gaming/Proxmox Build 2025
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Thermaltake Tower 200
Minisforum BD790i X3D
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Arctic P12 Slim Fan
PNY NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5080 OC
Predator 1TB NVMe Boot Drive
Samsung 990 Pro 4TB – VM Storage
Copyright © 2026 
Virtualization Howto
wpDiscuz
Insert
%d