I used NotebookLM for something it probably wasn't meant for — and it blew my mind
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
Devices
Submenu
Phones
Tablets
Gadgets
Accessories
Software
Submenu
Applications
Productivity
Utilities
AI & Machine Learning
Operating Systems
Lifestyle
Submenu
Smartwatches & Wearables
Smart Home
Smart TV
Connectivity
Submenu
Carriers
Deals
Videos
Product Awards
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu

                                    Follow
                                

                                            Followed
                                    
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Smart home mistakes
Pixel Glow is not enough
Google Health
Gemini Scheduled Actions
Play Store on a Fire tablet
Close
I used NotebookLM for something it probably wasn't meant for — and it blew my mind
Credit: Lucas Gouveia / Android Police | New Africa / Shutterstock
By 
Rahul Naskar
Published
 Mar 21, 2026, 7:00 AM EDT
I have eight years of experience covering Android, with a focus on apps, features, and platform updates. I love looking at even the minute changes in apps and software updates that most people would scroll past, and sharing my opinion unabashedly.

My background in tracking Android updates and app ecosystems gives me an instinct for what's worth paying attention to, especially the changes that companies don't always openly talk about.
I worked for XDA as a news writer from 2023 to 2026
. Before joining XDA, 
I worked as a Feature and List writer at MUO for nine months
, from January 2023 to November 2023.
I also spent more than a year as a news writer at Neowin
, from February 2022 to July 2023. 
Sign in to your 
Android Police
 account
Add Us On
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow

                                    Follow
                            
followed

                                    Followed
                            
Like

                            Like
                                

								Thread
																						
Log in

							Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
						
Try something different:
							

									Show me the facts
								

									Explain it like I’m 5
								

									Give me a lighthearted recap
								
Many of my colleagues at Android Police 
use NotebookLM in unique ways
 for things the tool isn't originally meant for. Those people inspired me to try NotebookLM even more and incorporate it into my daily life.
✕
 Remove Ads
I'll admit it was a bit of a challenge to figure out what problem I want NotebookLM to solve to maximize benefit and save time. After using it for several months, I almost instantly know when I need NotebookLM.
A few weeks ago, I tried something I didn't think NotebookLM was meant for. It was more like a curiosity than an actual attempt to solve the problem.
I expected nothing and got pretty much everything I didn't know I wanted, and perhaps that's the reason I was surprised after seeing the result.
My reaction doesn't matter, NotebookLM's powerful tools do. They helped me with something the AI tool wasn't probably meant for — and I couldn't have been happier.
Related

			6 NotebookLM tips I use to stay productive
		
Google's NotebookLM saves me a lot of time
Posts
7
By 
Stanley Martin
Mar 15, 2025

                        I used NotebookLM to plan my house painting
               

            And it worked
    
I have no prior experience painting walls, so I recently hired a painter to do the job. However, I was still wondering what color options to choose for my rooms.
I wasn't very confident about communicating the results I wanted to the painter. To be honest, even I didn't know what color options to go with.
I did exactly what I usually do in these kinds of situations. I watched a bunch of YouTube videos on what color options suit what type of conditions.
✕
 Remove Ads
It didn't work very well, as I was so overwhelmed with all the information that I couldn't ultimately figure out what to do next. So, I just fed NotebookLM all those YouTube videos that I watched to see how it goes.
Not only did it help choose color options to consider for my bedroom and living room, but it also taught me the factors to consider before choosing the right colors for painting walls.
After feeding the YouTube videos, I selected all the sources and generated an audio overview based on information shared in those videos.
It took NotebookLM a few minutes to generate a 22-minute-long podcast-style overview after I selected the 
Audio Overview
 option, explaining all important aspects that anyone who is planning to paint their home needs to know.
I listened to it carefully a couple of times, but I had my doubts. But instead of doing a quick Google search, I clicked the Interactive mode and joined the AI-generated podcast.
It never felt artificial. I asked my questions I needed clarifications on, and it provided answers as if I were talking to a real person who knows everything about the science of colors and has years of experience painting walls.
I also generated a video overview based on the information shared in the source videos. The AI-generated video overview helped me better visualize what each of the key concepts means.
Both the audio and video overviews told me about the "60-30-10 rule," which NotebookLM called "the designer's secret weapon" for a balanced home.
✕
 Remove Ads
However, it's the Video Overview feature that helped me understand what the room might look like, with 60% dominant color for main walls, 30% secondary for Accent wall and Sofa, and the rest 10% for cushions, vases, and other accessories.
I have yet to finalize the color combinations, though I have a few options in mind. I'll ask the painter to do a sampling before I choose the right option for my walls.
NotebookLM called Sampling the single most important piece of advice. It's a three-step process: choose your favorite shades, apply large swatches on different walls in your rooms, and look at the colors at different times of day.

                        I can now confidently help anyone choose the right paint for their homes
               
Credit: Lucas Gouveia / Android Police | fizkes / Shutterstock
NotebookLM doesn't make things up. It doesn't have to because it relies heavily on the sources you provided. However, when you read or watch from multiple sources, it isn't easy to curate all the key points from the sources.
This was precisely the problem I faced while watching painting videos on YouTube. But not anymore, as NotebookLM highlighted everything I needed to know in a fun way.
Those lessons are applicable to anyone who is planning to paint their walls, and not just for my rooms.
My partner's parents were also looking to paint their home, but they were clueless about the process. I downloaded the AI-generated audio and video overviews from NotebookLM and sent those to her parents.
✕
 Remove Ads
I don't know how long all NotebookLM's advice will be in my memory, but I can surely pass on every important piece of information to whoever asks me.
Maybe not as good as NotebookLM does, but it can certainly enlighten anyone who doesn't know anything about painting.

                        I wish I had used NotebookLM sooner to plan painting my walls
               
I wasted a lot of time watching YouTube videos and reading other sources on things to know before painting the interior walls. It didn't bring anything positive, other than perhaps 
more motivation to try NotebookLM
.
I would have saved a lot of time if I had fed everything I read or watched to NotebookLM right in the beginning. However, as a regular NotebookLM user, I'm glad that the AI tool turned out to be the last throw of the dice.
✕
 Remove Ads
Productivity
Google
Android Police's Best Reads

                                                                        Follow
                                                            

                                                            Followed
                                                    
Like
Share
Facebook
X
WhatsApp
Threads
Bluesky
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
✕
 Remove Ads
✕
 Remove Ads
Trending Now

			How a month-long app purge finally fixed my relationship with my phone
		

			My Google Pixel is infinitely better since I tweaked these settings
		

			Google’s NotebookLM is readying a powerful upgrade to give you your time back
		

                                                
                
                                                    
                                    Thread
                                                    
Sign in to your 
Android Police
 account
We want to hear from you. Share your perspective in the comments below, and please keep the conversation respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)

                                    Please respect our 
community guidelines
. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
                                
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This space is open for discussion.
Be the first to share your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
✕
 Remove Ads
Recommended
Mar 17, 2026

                                    Google brings Personal Intelligence to the masses
                            
Mar 12, 2026

                                    This YouTube web tool brings back the magic of cable channel surfing
                            
Feb 27, 2026

                                    My phone background is officially more interesting than my real life
                            
Feb 27, 2026

                                    Science says this new Audible feature is the best way to remember what you read
                            
✕
 Remove Ads
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Media Coverage
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Android Police
 is part of the
                            
Valnet Publishing Group

                Copyright © 2026 Valnet Inc.
            
✕
Visit
Now Playing
WATCH
NEXT
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Unmute
Current Time 
0:00
/
Duration 
-:-
Loaded
: 
0%
Stream Type 
LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind live
LIVE
Remaining Time 
-
0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off
, selected
Captions
captions off
, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-Picture
Fullscreen
This is a modal window.
Advertisement
Skip Ad
5