A one-line Kubernetes fix that saved 600 hours a year
Get Started Free
|
Contact Sales
|
▼
The Cloudflare Blog
Subscribe to receive notifications of new posts:
Subscribe
AI
Developers
Radar
Product News
Security
Policy & Legal
Zero Trust
Speed & Reliability
Life at Cloudflare
Partners
AI
Developers
Radar
Product News
Security
Policy & Legal
Zero Trust
Speed & Reliability
Life at Cloudflare
Partners
A one-line Kubernetes fix that saved 600 hours a year
2026-03-26
Braxton Schafer
4 min read
This post is also available in 
日本語
 and 
한국어
.
Every time we restarted Atlantis, the tool we use to plan and apply Terraform changes, we’d be stuck for 30 minutes waiting for it to come back up. No plans, no applies, no infrastructure changes for any repository managed by Atlantis. With roughly 100 restarts a month for credential rotations and onboarding, that added up to over 
50 hours of blocked engineering time every month
, and paged the on-call engineer every time.
This was ultimately caused by a safe default in Kubernetes that had silently become a bottleneck as the persistent volume used by Atlantis grew to millions of files. Here’s how we tracked it down and fixed it with a one-line change.
Mysteriously slow restarts
We manage dozens of Terraform projects with GitLab merge requests (MRs) using 
Atlantis
, which handles planning and applying. It enforces locking to ensure that only one MR can modify a project at a time. 
It runs on Kubernetes as a singleton StatefulSet and relies on a Kubernetes PersistentVolume (PV) to keep track of repository state on disk. Whenever a Terraform project needs to be onboarded or offboarded, or credentials used by Terraform are updated, we have to restart Atlantis to pick up those changes — a process that can take 30 minutes.
The slow restart was apparent when we recently ran out of inodes on the persistent storage used by Atlantis, forcing us to restart it to resize the volume. Inodes are consumed by each file and directory entry on disk, and the number available to a filesystem is determined by parameters passed when creating it. The Ceph persistent storage implementation provided by our Kubernetes platform does not expose a way to pass flags to 
mkfs
, so we’re at the mercy of default values: growing the filesystem is the only way to grow available inodes, and restarting a PV requires a pod restart. 
We talked about extending the alert window, but that would just mask the problem and delay our response to actual issues. Instead, we decided to investigate exactly why it was taking so long.
Bad behavior
When we were asked to do a rolling restart of Atlantis to pick up a change to the secrets it uses, we would run 
kubectl rollout restart statefulset atlantis
, which would gracefully terminate the existing Atlantis pod before spinning up a new one. The new pod would appear almost immediately, but looking at it would show:
$ 
kubectl get pod atlantis-0

atlantis-0                                                        0/1     
Init:0/1     0             30m

...so what gives? Naturally, the first thing to check would be events for that pod. It's waiting around for an init container to run, so maybe the pod events would illuminate why?
$ 
kubectl events --
for
=pod/atlantis-0

LAST SEEN   TYPE      REASON                   OBJECT                   MESSAGE
30m         Normal    Killing                  Pod/atlantis-0   Stopping container atlantis-server
30m        Normal    Scheduled                Pod/atlantis-0   Successfully assigned atlantis/atlantis-0 to 36com1167.cfops.net
22s         Normal    Pulling                  Pod/atlantis-0   Pulling image "oci.example.com/git-sync/master:v4.1.0"
22s         Normal    Pulled                   Pod/atlantis-0   Successfully pulled image "oci.example.com/git-sync/master:v4.1.0" in 632ms (632ms including waiting). Image size: 58518579 bytes.
That looks almost normal... but what's taking so long between scheduling the pod and actually starting to pull the image for the init container? Unfortunately that was all the data we had to go on from Kubernetes itself. But surely there 
had
 to be something more that can tell us why it's taking so long to actually start running the pod.
Going deeper
In Kubernetes, a component called 
kubelet
 that runs on each node is responsible for coordinating pod creation, mounting persistent volumes, and many other things. From my time on our Kubernetes team, I know that 
kubelet
 runs as a systemd service and so its logs should be available to us in Kibana. Since the pod has been scheduled, we know the host name we're interested in, and the log messages from 
kubelet
 include the associated object, so we could filter for 
atlantis
 to narrow down the log messages to anything we found interesting.
We were able to observe the Atlantis PV being mounted shortly after the pod was scheduled. We also observed all the secret volumes mount without issue. However, there was still a big unexplained gap in the logs. We saw:
[operation_generator.go:
664
] 
"MountVolume.MountDevice succeeded for volume \"pvc-94b75052-8d70-4c67-993a-9238613f3b99\" (UniqueName: \"kubernetes.io/csi/rook-ceph-nvme.rbd.csi.ceph.com^0001-000e-rook-ceph-nvme-0000000000000002-a6163184-670f-422b-a135-a1246dba4695\") pod \"atlantis-0\" (UID: \"83089f13-2d9b-46ed-a4d3-cba885f9f48a\") device mount path \"/state/var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/csi/rook-ceph-nvme.rbd.csi.ceph.com/d42dcb508f87fa241a49c4f589c03d80de2f720a87e36932aedc4c07840e2dfc/globalmount\""
 pod=
"atlantis/atlantis-0"

[pod_workers.go:
1298
] 
"Error syncing pod, skipping"
 err=
"unmounted volumes=[atlantis-storage], unattached volumes=[], failed to process volumes=[]: context deadline exceeded"
 pod=
"atlantis/atlantis-0"
 podUID=
"83089f13-2d9b-46ed-a4d3-cba885f9f48a"

[util.go:
30
] 
"No sandbox for pod can be found. Need to start a new one"
 pod=
"atlantis/atlantis-0"
The last two messages looped several times until eventually we observed the pod actually start up properly.
So 
kubelet
 thinks that the pod is otherwise ready to go, but it's not starting it and something's timing out.
The missing piece
The lowest-level logs we had on the pod didn't show us what's going on. What else do we have to look at? Well, the last message before it hangs is the PV being mounted onto the node. Ordinarily, if the PV has issues mounting (e.g. due to still being stuck mounted on another node), that will bubble up as an event. But something's still going on here, and the only thing we have left to drill down on is the PV itself. So I plug that into Kibana, since the PV name is unique enough to make a good search term... and immediately something jumps out:
[volume_linux.go:
49
] Setting volume ownership 
for
 /state/var/lib/kubelet/pods/
83089
f13-
2
d9b-
46
ed-a4d3-cba885f9f48a/volumes/kubernetes.io~csi/pvc-
94
b75052-
8
d70-
4
c67-
993
a-
9238613
f3b99/mount and fsGroup set. If the volume has a lot of files then setting volume ownership could be slow, see https:
//github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/69699
Remember how I said at the beginning we'd just run out of inodes? In other words, we have a 
lot
 of files on this PV. When the PV is mounted, 
kubelet
 is running 
chgrp -R
 to recursively change the group on every file and folder across this filesystem. No wonder it was taking so long — that's a ton of entries to traverse even on fast flash storage!
The pod's 
spec.securityContext
 included 
fsGroup: 1
, which ensures that processes running under GID 1 can access files on the volume. Atlantis runs as a non-root user, so without this setting it wouldn’t have permission to read or write to the PV. The way Kubernetes enforces this is by recursively updating ownership on the entire PV 
every time it's mounted
.
The fix
Fixing this was heroically...boring. Since version 1.20, Kubernetes has supported an additional field on 
pod.spec.securityContext
 called 
fsGroupChangePolicy
. This field defaults to 
Always
, which leads to the exact behavior we see here. It has another option, 
OnRootMismatch
, to only change permissions if the root directory of the PV doesn't have the right permissions. If you don’t know exactly how files are created on your PV, do not set 
fsGroupChangePolicy
: 
OnRootMismatch
. We checked to make sure that nothing should be changing the group on anything in the PV, and then set that field: 
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      securityContext:
        fsGroupChangePolicy: OnRootMismatch
Now, it takes about 30 seconds to restart Atlantis, down from the 30 minutes it was when we started.
Default Kubernetes settings are sensible for small volumes, but they can become bottlenecks as data grows. For us, this one-line change to 
fsGroupChangePolicy
 reclaimed nearly 50 hours of blocked engineering time per month. This was time our teams had been spending waiting for infrastructure changes to go through, and time that our on-call engineers had been spending responding to false alarms. That’s roughly 600 hours a year returned to productive work, from a fix that took longer to diagnose than deploy.
Safe defaults in Kubernetes are designed for small, simple workloads. But as you scale, they can slowly become bottlenecks. If you’re running workloads with large persistent volumes, it’s worth checking whether recursive permission changes like this are silently eating your restart time. Audit your 
securityContext
 settings, especially 
fsGroup
 and 
fsGroupChangePolicy
. 
OnRootMismatch
 has been available since v1.20.
Not every fix is heroic or complex, and it’s usually worth asking “why does the system behave this way?”
If debugging infrastructure problems at scale sounds interesting, 
we’re hiring
. Come join us on the 
Cloudflare Community
 or our 
Discord
 to talk shop.
 Discuss on Hacker News 
Kubernetes
Terraform
Platform Engineering
Infrastructure
SRE
Follow on X
Cloudflare
|
@cloudflare
Related posts
April 16, 2026
Building the foundation for running extra-large language models
We built a custom technology stack to run fast large language models on Cloudflare’s infrastructure. This post explores the engineering trade-offs and technical optimizations required to make high-performance AI inference accessible....
By 
Michelle Chen
, 
Kevin Flansburg
, 
Vlad Krasnov
Agents Week,
Agents,
AI,
Developer Platform,
Developers,
Infrastructure,
Workers AI
March 23, 2026
Inside Gen 13: how we built our most powerful server yet
Cloudflare's Gen 13 servers introduce AMD EPYC™ Turin 9965 processors and a transition to 100 GbE networking to meet growing traffic demands. In this technical deep dive, we explain the engineering rationale behind each major component selection....
By 
Syona Sarma
, 
JQ Lau
, 
Ma Xiong
, 
Victor Hwang
Hardware,
Infrastructure,
Engineering,
AMD
March 23, 2026
Launching Cloudflare’s Gen 13 servers: trading cache for cores for 2x edge compute performance
Cloudflare’s Gen 13 servers double our compute throughput by rethinking the balance between cache and cores. Moving to high-core-count AMD EPYC ™ Turin CPUs, we traded large L3 cache for raw compute density. By running our new Rust-based FL2 stack, we completely mitigated the latency penalty to unlock twice the performance....
By 
Syona Sarma
, 
JQ Lau
, 
Jesse Brandeburg
Hardware,
Performance,
Infrastructure,
Rust,
AMD,
Engineering
February 13, 2026
Shedding old code with ecdysis: graceful restarts for Rust services at Cloudflare
ecdysis is a Rust library enabling zero-downtime upgrades for network services. After five years protecting millions of connections at Cloudflare, it’s now open source....
By 
Manuel Olguín Muñoz
Rust,
Open Source,
Infrastructure,
Engineering,
Edge,
Developers,
Developer Platform,
Application Services,
Rust
Getting Started
Free plans
For enterprises
Compare plans
Get a recommendation
Request a demo
Contact Sales
Resources
Learning Center
Analyst reports
Cloudflare Radar
Cloudflare TV
Case Studies
Webinars
White Papers
Developer docs
theNet
Solutions
Connectivity cloud
SSE and SASE services
Application services
Network services
Developer services
Community
Community Hub
Project Galileo
Athenian Project
Cloudflare for Campaigns
Connect 2024
Support
Help center
Cloudflare Status
Compliance
GDPR
Trust & Safety
Company
About Cloudflare
Our team
Investor relations
Press
Careers
Diversity, equity & inclusion
Impact/ESG
Network Map
Logos & press kit
Become a partner
© 2026 Cloudflare, Inc. 
|
 Privacy Policy 
|
 Terms of Use 
|
 Report Security Issues 
|
Cookie Preferences
|
 Trademark 