Copy Fail - A 732-Byte Python Script Can Get Root on Every Major Linux Distro - Cyber Kendra
Follow Cyber Kendra on 
Google News
! | 
WhatsApp
 | 
Telegram
Add as a preferred source on Google

Cyber Kendra

Tech Hub

Contact Us


Disclaimer


Privacy

Home
About
Privacy Policy
Contact
More...
Disclaimer
Advertise
Breach List
Download
JSON-TOON
Tools
Adsense Calculator
JWT Decoder
Morse Code Decoder
Image to Webp Converter
Random IP Generator
Image to PDF Converter
Search Suggest
Apache
Apple
Google
Internet
Security
Home
Posts

Copy Fail - A 732-Byte Python Script Can Get Root on Every Major Linux Distro

CVE-2026-31431 "Copy Fail": a logic bug in the Linux kernel lets any local user get root on Ubuntu, RHEL, Amazon Linux, and SUSE since 2017.
4 min read
Add as preferred source
New Flaw: 
Dirty Frag — No Patch, No Warning — Root Access on Every Major Linux Distro
A newly disclosed vulnerability in the Linux kernel gives any unprivileged local user a reliable, one-shot path to root — and it has been sitting undetected for nearly a decade. The exploit is a single 732-byte Python script. It works unmodified on Ubuntu, Amazon Linux, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, and SUSE. No guesswork, no timing windows, no per-distribution tuning required.
Researchers at Theori's 
Xint Code team published
 the details today under the name 
Copy Fail
 (
CVE-2026-31431
), disclosing both the root cause and a working proof-of-concept after coordinated patching with the Linux kernel security team.
Most Linux privilege escalation bugs demand some form of luck — a race condition to win, a kernel version to match, a compiled payload to stage. Copy Fail eliminates all of that. It is a straight-line logic flaw: run it once, get root. Researchers directly tested kernel lines 6.12, 6.17, and 6.18 across four distributions and observed a root shell every time.
The write-up draws a deliberate contrast with two famous predecessors. Dirty Cow (2016) required winning a memory-subsystem race, sometimes crashing the machine in the process. Dirty Pipe (2022) was limited to specific kernel versions and needed careful pipe-buffer manipulation. Copy Fail needs none of that — the same script simply works everywhere.
The bug lives at the intersection of three independent kernel changes made between 2011 and 2017 — none problematic on its own. The Linux kernel exposes its cryptographic subsystem to unprivileged userspace through a socket type called 
AF_ALG
. A separate system call, 
splice()
, can transfer file data between file descriptors without copying it — passing references to the kernel's own cached pages of a file directly into the crypto subsystem.
In 2017, an optimization was added to 
algif_aead.c
 that made AEAD (authenticated encryption) operations run "in-place," meaning the input and output scatterlists (memory maps used for crypto operations) pointed to the same location. This put live, shared page-cache pages into what the crypto layer treated as a writable destination. That mattered because of a separate, older bug in 
authencesn
 — a crypto wrapper used by IPsec for extended sequence numbers — which writes 4 bytes past the legitimate end of its output buffer as a scratch-pad operation and never restores them.
Together: an attacker splices any readable file's page cache into the crypto path, triggers an 
authencesn
 decryption, and that scratch write lands 4 controlled attacker-chosen bytes at a chosen offset inside the kernel's cached copy of that file. The HMAC check fails and 
recvmsg()
 returns an error — but the write already happened.
The default target is 
/usr/bin/su
, a setuid-root binary on every tested distribution. Repeat the operation for each 4-byte chunk of shellcode, then call 
execve("/usr/bin/su")
.
The kernel loads the binary from the now-corrupted page cache. Because 
su
 is setuid, the shellcode runs as root.
Affected distributions
Ubuntu 24.04 LTS, Amazon Linux 2023, RHEL 14.3, SUSE 16, Debian, Arch, Fedora, Rocky, Alma, and other distributions running kernels built between 2017
 and the patch are also affected.
The container problem
Copy Fail does not stop at the host. Because the Linux page cache is shared across all processes on a system — including across container boundaries — a compromised container or pod can use this primitive to tamper with the host's cached binaries and escape to the underlying node. The researchers are publishing a separate follow-up detailing the Kubernetes escape path.
How it was found
The discovery was a collaboration between human insight and AI tooling. Theori researcher Taeyang Lee identified 
AF_ALG
 combined with 
splice()
 as a promising attack surface — recognizing that this path could feed page-cache pages of read-only files directly into the kernel crypto subsystem. 
That hypothesis was fed as an operator prompt into Xint Code, an AI-assisted security audit tool, which scanned the entire 
crypto/
 subsystem in roughly an hour. Copy Fail was the highest-severity finding in the run. The same scan surfaced additional high-severity vulnerabilities still under coordinated disclosure.
What to do right now
Update your distribution's kernel package. The fix (mainline commit a664bf3d603d) reverts the 2017 in-place optimization in 
algif_aead.c
, separating source and destination scatterlists so page-cache pages can no longer end up in a writable crypto destination. Major distributions are shipping the fix now.
If you cannot patch immediately, disable the algif_aead kernel module. This breaks nothing for the vast majority of systems — dm-crypt, LUKS, IPsec, TLS, SSH, and standard OpenSSL/GnuTLS builds all use the in-kernel crypto API directly and do not go through 
AF_ALG
:
echo "install algif_aead /bin/false" > /etc/modprobe.d/disable-algif.conf
rmmod algif_aead 2>/dev/null || true
For containerized or multi-tenant workloads, block 
AF_ALG
 socket creation via seccomp policy regardless of patch state. The page-cache corruption does not persist across reboots — the cached page reloads clean from disk — but the root shell obtained before reboot is fully real.
The proof-of-concept is published on 
GitHub
. The researchers ask that it be used only on systems the tester owns or has written authorization to test.
Copy

Post a Comment


Post a Comment


Post a Comment

Popular Posts
Dirty Frag — No Patch, No Warning — Root Access on Every Major Linux Distro

Discovered by Korean security researcher Hyunwoo Kim, Dirty Frag chains two separate kernel vulnerabilities to hand any local user a root shell on vi…

AnyFlip Downloader (Free, Fast & No Login Required) – Download PDFs Instantly
Download ExaGear APK + OBB for Android | Windows Emulator 2026
React and Next.js Hit With 12 Security Flaws — Three Let Attackers Bypass Auth, Hijack Servers
Pirates Bay Proxy List April 2026: Unblock Pirate Bay

Category

Android
Apple
Data Breached
Google
Microsoft
News
OpenAI
Ransomware
Security
Tips
Vulnerability
Windows 10
Windows 11


                        © 
2026
 ‧ 
Cyber Kendra
. All rights reserved.
                        

With 💛 
Cyber Kendra