Another spyware maker caught distributing fake Android snooping apps | TechCrunch
Skip to content
The first StrictlyVC of 2026 hits SF on April 30. Tickets are going fast. 
Register now.
Close
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
Latest
Startups
Venture
Apple
Security
AI
Apps
Events
Podcasts
Newsletters
Search
Submit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics

		Latest	

		AI	

		Amazon	

		Apps	

		Biotech & Health	

		Climate	

		Cloud Computing	

		Commerce	

		Crypto	

		Enterprise	

		EVs	

		Fintech	

		Fundraising	

		Gadgets	

		Gaming	

		Google	

		Government & Policy	

		Hardware	

		Instagram	

		Layoffs	

		Media & Entertainment	

		Meta	

		Microsoft	

		Privacy	

		Robotics	

		Security	

		Social	

		Space	

		Startups	

		TikTok	

		Transportation	

		Venture	
More from TechCrunch
		

		Staff	

		Events	

		Startup Battlefield	

		StrictlyVC	

		Newsletters	

		Podcasts	

		Videos	

		Partner Content	

		TechCrunch Brand Studio	

		Crunchboard	

		Contact Us	
Image Credits:
Bryce Durbin / TechCrunch

		Security	
Another spyware maker caught distributing fake Android snooping apps
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
7:17 AM PDT · April 24, 2026
Yet another government spyware maker has been caught after its customers used fake Android apps to install its surveillance software on targets, according to a new report.
On Thursday, Osservatorio Nessuno, an Italian digital rights organization that researches spyware, 
published a report
 on a new malware it calls Morpheus. The spyware, which masquerades as a phone updating app, is capable of stealing a broad range of data from an intended target’s device. 
The researchers’ findings show that the demand for spyware by law enforcement and intelligence agencies is so high that there are a large number of companies providing this technology, some of whom operate outside of the public spotlight.
In this case, Osservatorio Nessuno concluded that the spyware is linked to IPS, an Italian company that has been operating for more than 30 years providing traditional so-called lawful interception technology, meaning tools used by governments to capture a person’s real-time communications that flow through the networks of phone and internet providers. 
According to IPS’ website
, the company operates in more than 20 countries, though that likely does not refer to its spyware product, which until today was a secret. The company lists several Italian police forces among its customers. 
IPS did not respond to TechCrunch’s request for comment about the report.
Contact Us

			Do you have more information about IPS? Or other spyware makers? From a non-work device, you can contact Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai securely on Signal at +1 917 257 1382, or via Telegram and Keybase @lorenzofb, or 
email
.
The researchers called Morpheus “low cost” spyware because it relies on the rudimentary infection mechanism of tricking the targets into installing the spyware on their own. 
More advanced government spyware makers, such as 
NSO Group
 and 
Paragon Solutions
, allow their government customers to infect their targets with invisible techniques, known as 
zero-click attacks
, which install the malware in a completely stealthy and invisible way by exploiting expensive and difficult-to-find vulnerabilities that break through a device’s security defenses.
In this case, the researchers said the authorities had help from the target’s cellphone provider, which began deliberately blocking the target’s mobile data. At that point, the telecom provider sent the target an SMS, prompting them to install an app that was supposed to help them update the phone, and regain cellular data access. This is a strategy that 
has been well documented
 in other cases involving other Italian spyware makers.
Image Credits:
Osservatorio Nessuno
Once the spyware was installed, it abused Android’s in-built accessibility features, which allows the spyware to read the data on the victim’s screen and interact with other apps. The malware was designed to access all kinds of information on the device, according to the researchers. 
The spyware then prompted a fake update, showed the target a reboot screen, and finally spoofed the WhatsApp app asking the target to provide their biometrics to prove that it’s them. Unbeknownst to the target, the biometric tap granted the spyware full access to their WhatsApp account by adding a device to the account. This is a known strategy 
used by government hackers in Ukraine
, as well as 
in a recent spy campaign in Italy
.
An old company with a new spyware
Osservatorio Nessuno’s researchers, who asked to be referred only with their first names, Davide and Giulio, concluded that the spyware belongs to IPS based on the spyware’s infrastructure. 
In particular, one of the IP addresses used in the campaign was registered to “IPS Intelligence Public Security.” 
The two also found several fragments of code that contained Italian phrases — something that has seemingly 
become
tradition
 among the Italian spyware industry. The malware code included words in Italian, including references to Gomorra, the famous book and TV show about the Neapolitan mob, and “spaghetti.” 
Davide and Giulio told TechCrunch that they can’t provide specifics about who the target was, but they said they believe the attack is “related to political activism” in Italy, a world where “this type of targeted attacks are very common nowadays.” 
A researcher at a cybersecurity firm told TechCrunch that their company has been tracking this specific malware. After reviewing the Osservatorio Nessuno report, the researcher said that the malware is definitely developed by an Italian surveillance tech maker.
IPS is the latest in a long list of Italian spyware makers that have filled the void left by the long-defunct Italian company Hacking Team, one of the first spyware makers in the world. The company controlled a large share of the local market apart from selling abroad before it was hacked, and later sold and rebranded. In recent years, researchers have publicly exposed several Italian spyware makers, including 
CY4GATE
, 
eSurv
, 
GR Sistemi
, 
Movia
, 
Negg
, 
Raxir
, 
RCS Lab
, and most recently 
SIO
. 
Earlier this month 
WhatsApp notified around 200 users
 who installed a fake version of the app, which was actually spyware made by SIO. In 2021, Italian prosecutors 
suspended their use
 of CY4GATE and SIO spyware due to serious malfunctions.
Topics
cybersecurity
, 
hackers
, 
hacking
, 
infosec
, 
ips
, 
Italy
, 
privacy
, 
Security
, 
Spyware
, 
surveillance
When you purchase through links in our articles, 
we may earn a small commission
. This doesn’t affect our editorial independence.

			Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai	
Senior Reporter, Cybersecurity
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai is a Senior Writer at TechCrunch, where he covers hacking, cybersecurity, surveillance, and privacy. 
You can contact or verify outreach from Lorenzo by emailing 
lorenzo@techcrunch.com
, via encrypted message at +1 917 257 1382 on Signal, and @lorenzofb on Keybase/Telegram.
View Bio 
May 27
Athens, Greece
StrictlyVC Athens is up next. Hear unfiltered insights straight from Europe’s tech leaders and connect with the people shaping what’s ahead. Lock in your spot before it’s gone.
REGISTER NOW
Most Popular
Hackers deface school login pages after claiming another Instructure hack
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
Zack Whittaker
reMarkable’s new Paper Pure tablet goes back to basics with a monochrome screen
Ivan Mehta
Hackers steal students’ data during breach at education tech giant Instructure
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
As workers worry about AI, Nvidia’s Jensen Huang says AI is ‘creating an enormous number of jobs’
Lucas Ropek
Anthropic and OpenAI are both launching joint ventures for enterprise AI services
Russell Brandom
Ouster’s new color lidar is coming to replace cameras
Sean O'Kane
This tiny, magnetic e-reader could stop you from doomscrolling
Amanda Silberling

		Loading the next article		

		Error loading the next article	
✕
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Crunchboard Jobs
Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
RSS Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Anthropic
SAP
Samsung
Marc Lore
TechCrunch Disrupt
Tech Layoffs
ChatGPT
© 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
Some areas of this page may shift around if you resize the browser window. Be sure to check heading and document order.