RAID isn't a backup solution, please stop treating it like one
Menu
Sign in now
Close
PC & Mobile
Submenu
Windows2
Linux
Android
Apple
Technical
Submenu
Tech Explained
Security
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Internet
Creative
Screen
Submenu
Entertainment
Streaming
Home
Submenu
Smart Home
Home
News
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu

                                    Follow
                                

                                            Followed
                                    
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Productivity
Android
Smart TVs
Networking
Windows 11
Entertainment
Close
RAID isn't a backup solution, please stop treating it like one
Credit: James Bruce / MakeUseOf
By 
Oliver Haslam
Published
 Apr 26, 2026, 2:30 PM EDT
Oliver has been writing about mobile and the wider technology space for more than a decade with bylines on TechRadar, CNET, Inverse, and more.

With experience covering breaking news, writing in-depth product reviews, and sharing more than a few opinions, Oliver has been the go-to expert for some of the biggest publications both online and in print.
Sign in to your 
MakeUseOf
 account
Add Us On
follow

                                    Follow
                            
followed

                                    Followed
                            
Like

                            Like
                                

								Thread
																						
Log in

							Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
						
Try something different:
							

									Show me the facts
								

									Explain it like I’m 5
								

									Give me a lighthearted recap
								
In the world of high-availability data storage, RAID, or Redundant Array of Independent Disks, has almost mythical status. It's the go-to for everything from enterprise data centers to home labs housing media libraries. But it's also wildly misunderstood, and that could cost you a huge amount of data and a lot of heartache.
✕
 Remove Ads
It's a common misconception that data on a RAID array doesn't need to be backed up. That's not the case. And while it's true that RAID arrays can offer redundancy should one of your hard drives fail, you still need a robust backup system in place. It's the only way to make sure that your most important files are safe and sound should the worst happen, and that's a lesson that's worth learning right now — before it's too late.
Related

			Don't use SSDs for long-term storage; do this instead
		
They're a terrible place to stash files you won't touch for months.
Posts
45
By 
Yasir Mahmood
Feb 12, 2026

                        RAID can save the day in the right circumstances
               

            But it isn't the safety net you think it is
    
Image Credit: slawomir.gawryluk/
Shutterstock
Credit: slawomir.gawryluk/Shutterstock
 To understand why RAID isn't a viable backup solution, it's important to understand what it actually is. As the acronym suggests, RAID takes a number of hard disks and merges them together into a single, larger pool of storage. Depending on 
which type of RAID array
 you use, that pool's size will be the sum of the drives' capacities. Other times, it'll hold some of that storage back for other uses.
If you choose a RAID 1, 5, 6, or 10 array, the system uses mirroring or parity to ensure that even if one of your drives fails, your data is safe — even if it was physically located on the drive that gave up the ghost.
✕
 Remove Ads
With any of these RAID arrays, the built-in fault tolerance allows the system to continue working as if nothing had happened. You can replace the failed drive at your convenience, and the array will rebuild itself once the new drive is installed.
This approach is called "high availability," and it's a vital component of any system that is mission-critical. That is, a system that must continue to work at all costs.
But it isn't a backup.

                        When RAID's limitations can lose your data
               

            Don't get caught out
    
While RAID does protect your data from a single, and sometimes multiple, hard drive failures, it still has its limitations. There are countless ways you could 
lose all of your important files
. And if those files happen to be your photo library full of pictures of your kids growing up, that's a hard lesson to learn.
The thing is, while RAID protects you from data loss if a hard drive fails, it can't do anything about the other components in your computer. All RAID arrays need a RAID controller, and whether it's hardware or software, it can always fail. That has the potential to break the entire array, leaving the data it contains irretrievable.
RAID also doesn't protect you from a common computing mistake — accidental file deletion. RAID 1 arrays mirror your data identically across all of its hard drives for redundancy. Everything happens within an instant, and any file you delete will immediately be removed from the mirrored hard drive as well. The file will be gone for good. The same applies to file corruption, too.
✕
 Remove Ads
A similar issue can arise if malware or ransomware finds its way onto the RAID array. Either could encrypt your RAID array, leaving you with no way to roll back to a state prior to the infection.
Finally, no RAID array in the world will help you if it's caught in a fire or a flood. And the same applies to theft, too.
Thankfully, there is a way to mitigate all of these issues. And, as you have no doubt guessed, it's a robust backup strategy.

                        The 3-2-1 backup strategy
               

            Three is two, two is one, and one is none
    
Credit: Alvin Wanjala / MakeUseOf
 There are plenty of different ways that you can back up your data. There are some 
great online backup services
 out there, and keeping your data in the cloud protects against fires, floods, and theft.
People have been backing up their most important files to an external hard drive or SSD for years, and that's a reasonable approach. You'll get extra geek points if you then keep that drive somewhere else, far from your RAID array. A friend's house, for example.
Both of those options are viable, and they're a huge upgrade over having no backup solution to speak of. But they're better when used together. Enter the 3-2-1 backup strategy.

                    Subscribe to the newsletter for smarter RAID and backups
                
Make data protection simple: subscribe to the newsletter for clear, practical coverage of RAID limitations, the 3-2-1 backup strategy, and guidance to safeguard your files instead of relying on redundancy alone.
Get Updates
By subscribing, you agree to receive newsletter and marketing emails, and accept our 
Terms of Use
 and 
Privacy Policy
. You can unsubscribe anytime.
✕
 Remove Ads
The idea is simple. You should keep all of your important files in three places: the original location and two backups. Those two backups should also be saved on two different media, like an external SSD and a cloud service. Finally, at least one of those backups should be kept off-site. That could be a cloud backup service or simply taking an SSD to a friend's house. But it needs to be somewhere that won't be affected by anything that could befall the other backup. Again, think fire, flood, or theft here.
Ultimately, if you only have a single backup, and it's lost to the same fire as the original data, you never really had a backup at all.
If you follow the 3-2-1 strategy, it's highly unlikely that you will permanently lose any important data.
Related

			6 Simple Ways to Back Up Your Data Safely
		
Avoid risking lost files by learning how to back them up securely.
Posts
3
By 
Danny Maiorca
Mar 31, 2025

                        Better safe than sorry
               

            Act now, before it's too late
    
Credit: BongkarnGraphic / PaleStudio / Shutterstock
 The thing about backups is that the first time many people think about them is when it's too late. The data is already gone. But RAID arrays can lure you into a false sense of security, and that can be even worse. To think that your files are safe, only to find that they never really were, isn't something anyone should have to go through.
Now, you don't have to. Remember, RAID redundancy isn't the same as a proper backup solution. And follow the 3-2-1 strategy to ensure those family photos are there when you want them.

    						Ugreen DXP4800 Plus
			
8
/10
Brand

									
										
											Ugreen

										
																	
CPU

									
										
											Intel Pentium Gold 8505 (5 core)

										
																	
Memory

									
										
											8GB DDR-5 (upgradeable to 64GB)

										
																	
Drive Bays

									
										
											4 x 3.5 or 2.5-inch

										
																	
Network Attached Storage systems like the DXP4800 often support various types of RAID as well as their own bespoke data pooling tech. But you'll still need a proper backup solution to keep your data safe.
See at Ugreen
Expand
Collapse
✕
 Remove Ads
Technology Explained
RAID
Storage

                                                                        Follow
                                                            

                                                            Followed
                                                    
Like
Share
Facebook
X
WhatsApp
Threads
Bluesky
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
✕
 Remove Ads

                                                    Technology Explained
                                            

                                                    PC & Mobile
                                            

			Your SSD does not wipe your deleted files — this is what TRIM actually does
		
2 hours ago

			Wireless charging is finally worth using, but only if you know what to look for
		
3 hours ago

			CPU-Z shows more than PC specs if you know where to look
		
5 hours ago
See More

			The Lenovo Yoga Pro 7i is a tough sell, but the display is insane
		
3 minutes ago

			I ran a Windows network reset and fixed problems I'd blamed on my router for months
		
4 hours ago

			I switched to Gentoo Linux and now I get why it's worth the headache
		
8 hours ago
See More
✕
 Remove Ads
Trending Now

			I wanted a lightweight self-hosted Google Drive alternative — this single-binary web app is almost perfect
		

			I didn't know my ISP could see every website I visit until I checked this setting
		

			I learned what Windows "Quick Format" actually does (and it’s terrifying)
		

                                                
                
                                                    
                                    Thread
                                                    
Sign in to your 
MakeUseOf
 account
We want to hear from you. Share your perspective in the comments below, and please keep the conversation respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)

                                    Please respect our 
community guidelines
. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
                                
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Shane
Shane
Shane
#ID113349
Member since 2026-02-07
Following
0
Topics
0
Users

                                                                        Follow
                                                            

                                                            Followed
                                                    
0  Followers 
View
RAID protects against one of more disk failures, depending on the RAID type so your workload/service doesn't go down. In my 25 years in datacenter infrastructure I never came across someone who saw RAID as some sort of backup solution. Don't confuse proper infrastructure engineers with home enthusiasts gloating over their NAS devices 
2026-04-29 12:09:23
Upvote

                                    1
                            
Downvote
Reply
Copy
        
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
✕
 Remove Ads
Recommended
Apr 23, 2026

                                    Your passwords are officially obsolete, according to Britain's top intelligence agency
                            
Apr 21, 2026

                                    LLMs hallucinate the most when you ask them to do this
                            
Apr 19, 2026

                                    I own 3 PC gaming handhelds, and this is the one I barely use
                            
Apr 18, 2026

                                    7 devices in your home that really shouldn’t be on Wi-Fi
                            
✕
 Remove Ads
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Media Coverage
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
MakeUseOf
 is part of the
                            
Valnet Publishing Group

                Copyright © 2026 Valnet Inc.
            
✕
✕
Visit
Now Playing
WATCH
NEXT
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Unmute
Current Time 
0:00
/
Duration 
-:-
Loaded
: 
0%
Stream Type 
LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind live
LIVE
Remaining Time 
-
0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off
, selected
Captions
captions off
, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-Picture
Fullscreen
This is a modal window.
Skip Ad
5