‘AI is not making IT simpler – it's making it more consequential’: IT workers are feeling the heat as AI raises expectations | IT Pro
IT Pro
US Edition
US
Australia
UK
×
Search

Business


Cloud


Hardware


Infrastructure


Security


Content hubs


Advertise


More


More

About

About

View all More
About us
Advertise with us
Contact us
Newsletters
Policies

Policies

View all More
Terms of Service
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Copyright Preferences
Additional Resources

Additional Resources

View all More
AI
Zero Trust
Software
Technology
Resources 
Webinars
Brand Highlights
Product Offerings
Case Studies
Channel Pro
NEWSLETTER
ITPro
Get the ITPro daily newsletter
Sign up today and you will receive a free copy of our Future Focus 2025 report - the leading guidance on AI, cybersecurity and other IT challenges as per 700+ senior executives

Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands


Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors

There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again.

By submitting your information you agree to the 
Terms & Conditions
 and 
Privacy Policy
 and are aged 16 or over.

You are now subscribed
Your newsletter sign-up was successful
 An account already exists for this email address, please log in.
Trending
Subscribe to the ITPro newsletter
AI in business
Reviews and how tos
The ITPro Podcast
Laying the foundations for tomorrow's AI today
Home
Technology
Artificial Intelligence
‘AI is not making IT simpler – it's making it more consequential’: IT workers are feeling the heat as AI raises expectations
A SolarWinds survey suggests AI makes IT work more strategic, but also adds friction and raises expectations

By

Nicole Kobie

published

3 weeks ago
in 
News

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. 
Here’s how it works
.

(Image credit: Getty Images)

Share

Copy link


Facebook


X


Linkedin


Bluesky


Share this article


Join the conversation


Follow us


Add us as a preferred source on Google


Newsletter


Subscribe to our newsletter

AI is driving significant efficiency gains for IT workers by speeding up tasks, according to new research, but it’s also causing friction and raising expectations.
Findings from SolarWinds’ annual 
IT Trends Report
 suggest that AI is making some tasks easier, but rather than reducing workloads it instead increases the amount of strategic and complex work now required.
Around 13% of respondents told SolarWinds that AI has not helped them individually in their day-to-day work.
Seven-in-ten IT professionals said that AI has made their work more demanding, in part by expanding their roles.
Latest Videos From IT Pro
There have been some time savings thanks to reducing manual effort (65%) and faster root cause analysis (61%).
However, now their work also includes making use of AI outputs and designing systems to make it work, such as interpreting data and AI-driven insights (59%), designing AI driven workflows (56%), and evaluating and validating AI outputs (47%).
AI is also adding work due to the need to double-check outputs (71%) and the difficulty trusting recommendations (62%). Because of this, a third say AI has 
increased "cognitive load"
 in some ways.
Get the ITPro daily newsletter
Sign up today and you will receive a free copy of our Future Focus 2025 report - the leading guidance on AI, cybersecurity and other IT challenges as per 700+ senior executives
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the 
Terms & Conditions
 and 
Privacy Policy
 and are aged 16 or over.
"Seventy-one percent of IT professionals say AI has made their roles more demanding, not less, driven by the need to validate AI outputs, manage governance and risk, and keep pace with tools that evolve faster than most organizations can train for. AI saves time in some places and creates new forms of cognitive overhead in others.
SolarWinds’ findings echo previous research highlighting how AI isn't 
making work easier but intensifying it
. Similar research found workers are now spending 
half a day each week fixing AI "workslop"
 — without 
necessarily boosting wider productivity
.
Changing roles and shifting expectations
According to SolarWinds, 80% agreed that their roles were evolving from “operational to orchestration”. Respondents now see their roles as more strategic (52%), automation driven (52%), cross-functional (47%), and complex (41%) than they did two years ago.
"AI is not making IT simpler – it's making it more consequential," said Krishna Sai, Chief Technology Officer at SolarWinds.
"The teams thriving in this environment are not usually the ones with the most AI tools. Instead, those who are building the governance and structure to actually trust them are seeing the greatest results. That's what organizations need to get right: not only deploying AI, but also creating the conditions where it can deliver."
One cause of friction may well be a lack of skills and wider AI readiness, according to SolarWinds.
The firm’s report showed that nearly half (47%) of C-suite executives believe their IT team is ready for AI. Meanwhile, just 13% of technical contributors actually doing the work agree with this outlook.
Respondents also disagreed on how positive the impact of AI has been to their company.
One-third said AI has enabled them to increase output without hiring extra staff, while 42% said it allowed performance to be maintained with fewer resources.
That highlights how AI is being used to reduce headcounts or prevent future hiring, with more than 
a third of UK tech leaders
 admitting last year they'd made cuts to staff because of AI – though they now regret those redundancies.
But another 20% told SolarWinds that AI has increased expectations without reducing workload – and 5% say they've seen no meaningful impact.
FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA
Follow ITPro on Google News
 and 
add us as a preferred source
 to keep tabs on all our latest news, analysis, views, and reviews.
You can also 
follow ITPro on LinkedIn
, 
X
, 
Facebook
, and 
BlueSky
.
Nicole Kobie
Freelance journalist Nicole Kobie first started writing for ITPro in 2007, with bylines in New Scientist, Wired, PC Pro and many more. 
Nicole the author of a book about the history of technology, The Long History of the Future.
Latest

The channel’s role in helping customers manage the data deluge

Industry Insights

The channel can play a pivotal role in helping customers develop future-proof, scalable data strategies


Addressing Enterprise AI Data Challenges at Scale with the Dell AI Data Platform

whitepaper
You might also like

Liz Kendall: The UK is in prime position to become a global leader in AI — but greater tech industry support is needed to avoid falling behind

News

Tech secretary Liz Kendall has pledged greater investment in the chip and semiconductor technologies that underpin AI


UK firms accelerate ‘sovereign AI’ plans amid concerns over dependence on overseas tech

News

A Red Hat report shows firms are prioritizing sovereign AI over fears that foreign providers could restrict access


UK organizations are failing to move past basic AI use-cases

News

Businesses in the UK are ramping up AI adoption, but they’re falling at key hurdles


AI adoption rates aren’t matching IT hype

News

The appetite for AI is there, but a range of issues are hampering adoption


Concerns are mounting over the cognitive impact of AI as workers report experiencing ‘brain fry’ – and it’s causing "increased employee errors, decision fatigue, and intention to quit"

News

Research from Boston Consulting Group backs earlier studies in highlighting the negative cognitive impact of AI at work


If you thought RTO battles were bad, wait until AI mandates start taking hold across the industry

Opinion

Forcing workers to adopt AI under the threat of poor performance reviews and losing out on promotions will only create friction


Sam Altman just said what everyone is thinking about AI layoffs

News

AI layoff claims are overblown and increasingly used as an excuse for “traditional drivers” when implementing job cuts


Google says hacker groups are using Gemini to augment attacks – and companies are even ‘stealing’ its models

News

Google Threat Intelligence Group has shut down repeated attempts to misuse the Gemini model family

View More ▸
ITPro

IT Pro is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. 
Visit our corporate site
.

Add as a preferred source on Google
Connect With Us
RSS
Contact Future's experts
About us
Contact us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Web notifications
Cookies policy
Newsletters
GDRP consent
Careers
Contact Future's B2B experts
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 