PatchMon V2 Finally Lets You Patch Your Servers From One Dashboard - Virtualization Howto
Skip to content
YouTube
Twitter
LinkedIn
GitHub
Facebook
Discord
Pinterest
Virtualization Howto
Virtualization, Cloud, DevOps, Reviews
Search for:
Subscribe
Forum
My kits
Home Lab NAS Kits
Intel Optane Swap Kit
VMware Compatible Mini PCs
Podcast
DevOps
Virtualization
Proxmox
VMware
Hyper-V
XCP-ng
Containers
Kubernetes
Mini PC & Server
Home Lab
My Home Lab
Nested ESXi Lab
Proxmox Build 2025
About
Contact
Disclaimer
E-books
Privacy
Newsletter
3
Home
2026
May
PatchMon V2 Finally Lets You Patch Your Servers From One Dashboard
PatchMon V2 Finally Lets You Patch Your Servers From One Dashboard
May 5, 2026
May 5, 2026
by Brandon Lee
I first wrote about Patchmon in its v1 form back at the end of 2025. It immediately stood out to me as something that filled a real gap in the Linux home lab space and even production environments. If you have more than just a few servers, you realize that keeping track of updates and making sure these get applied is a challenge. You have to rely on scripts, automation frameworks, Ansible, etc to stay updated. Or you can just do it the old fashioned way and “sneakernet” the updates across. With 
Patchmon v2
, I think we have arguably one of the strongest solutions in that space for patch management. Let’s take a look at the features and capabilities.
The biggest limitation in PatchMon V1
There was one real problem in the v1 release that was holding it back from being amazing and that was the ability to initiate patches from Patchmon. You could see what updates were available, but you could not actually do anything about them from the interface. 
Read my review of Patchmon v1 here: 
PatchMon Is the Linux Update GUI I’ve Been Wanting for My Home Lab
.
As you can imagine, this created a bit of a disconnect in the workflow. You would use PatchMon to discover what needed attention, then switch over to your tool of choice for patching as we mentioned earlier. But this as we know is not seamless. The developer knew that and it was always expected that at some point Patchmon would be able to do everything. That is exactly where PatchMon V2 comes in.
What PatchMon V2 changes
The big change and addition is icing on the cake I think. You can now actively patch your servers, whether these are bare metal or running inside your 
Proxmox VE Server environment
. Now, instead of Patchmon being just a glorified monitoring dashboard for patching and update needs, it is an actual patch management tool. Instead of stopping at visibility, you can now take action directly from the same interface, which is super cool.
Now, when you see a system that has pending updates, you do not need to open a terminal or switch tools. You can initiate the patching process right from the PatchMon interface. This definitely streamlines the workflow and allows you to stay up to date on 
patches and visibility across your server
 estate.
Supports not only Linux but also FreeBSD and Windows. This is a major upgrade over v1 which at the time when I tried it out, it was Linux only and no Windows. For me personally, I am more interested in the Linux side of things, but how awesome is it that you can manage all of your patching operations across both Linux and Windows? 
***Note***
 Currently, at least in my testing with Windows, it is visibility only. But suspecting this will be like v1 and has monitoring for updates in Windows and then later will add the ability to actually apply updates in Windows as well. So stay tuned to the project on that front.
So, lots to like about this new version. Let’s see how we can get it up and running.
Installing Patchmon V2
The process to install 
Patchmon V2
 is straightforward. From the official documentation on the GitHub page, you can install it with the following:
mkdir patchmon && cd patchmon
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PatchMon/PatchMon/refs/heads/main/docker/setup-env.sh)"
docker compose up -d
Below, you see how I made the directory, changed into the directory and then ran the script to pull down the docker compose and env file. The script also steps you through how you want to access your Patchmon installation. It asks you if it will be behind a reverse proxy and what URL or domain name you will be accessing it with. This is so it configures the CORS origin correctly, etc.
Also, I will say the process to install Patchmon is massively easier than v1 as the script below has streamlined much of the heavy lifting.
Making the directory and configuring the reverse proxy options for patchmon
Below, we are running the docker compose up -d command to bring the stack up. The script above simply configures things to get ready to bring up the stack. The docker compose up -d command is still needed to actually bring up the stack.
Running the docker compose up d command for patchmon v2
Exploring the Patchmon v2 interface
Now that we have it up and running, we just access the solution with the URL we configured during the provisioning process. When you do, you will step through the little mini wizard starting below with creating your 
admin account
.
Create an admin account in patchmon v2
Next is configuring mulit-factor authentication.
Setup mfa authentication for patchmon v2
Step 3 has you confirm the server URL. This is the URL agents use to connect. So keep this in mind that if you change the URL later which you can do under the Settings.
Confirm the server url
Next, you can opt in or out of staying updated on the latest information with Patchmon.
Opt in or out of staying updating on latest patchmon news and information
Finalize the installation and access the dashboard.
Finish out and access the patchmon v2 dashboard
After you click the button above to Access Dashboard, you will be taken to the default Patchmon v2 dashboard. 
Viewing the patchmon v2 dashboard for the first time
Adding hosts to Patchmon v2
Now that we have the solution fully provisioned and the mini setup wizard completed, we can add hosts that we want to manage. Click the 
Hosts
 menu > 
+ Add Host
 button.
Beginning the process to add a host in patchmon v2
This will launch the wizard below to add hosts to the solution. First, you will choose between Linux, FreeBSD, and Windows. Click Next.
Choose the type of new host to add in patchmon v2
On the 
host details
 screen, here you enter the friendly name and add to host groups if you have any configured, and choose integrations you want, like Docker. These are really handy as it will also 
monitor your Docker
 image details, etc.
Host details in patchmon v2
On step 3, you click the 
Copy command
 and it copies the script you need to run on the remote host.
Copy the command to onboard the remote host into patchmon v2
The wizard will then move to the screen below, where it is waiting on you to run the command on teh remote host.
Waiting for connection to the new host
Below, I am running the onboarding script on the remote Linux host.
Running the copied command from patchmon v2 on the remote host
The host is onboarded successfully. Immediately, I see the status of 
Needs updates
.
Host is onboarded and you can see status in the patchmon v2 dashboard
Actively running updates on remote hosts
Now that we have the host onboarded, we can run the actual updates on the remote host, which Patchmon v2 makes really easy. Click on a host and then click the 
Patch all
 button.
Beginning the process to apply updates to a remote host in patchmon v2
The 
patch all packages on <hostname> 
wizard launches. We first select the timing of the updates. It will default to policy (if you have one configured), but you can also override that as well.
Choose when you want to apply the updates
Here, I clicked the drop down menu to select 
Override: Run immediately
. Click 
Next
.
Overriding policy to run immediately
Step 5 is 
Approval
. Click 
Approve now
 > 
Next
.
Approval for the update of the host
Finally, submit to the queue and patch the host.
Submit to the patchmon v2 queue to patch
One of the neat features is it has a shell output that allows you to monitor the update process in real time from the UI.
Viewing the update process in realtime
Using policy to automate updates
One of the really neat features of Patchmon v2 is the ability to create 
policies
 that can control the update process. Policies allow you to define when and how updates are applied to specific hosts. Click the 
Patching > Policies
 menu. Then 
+ Create policy
. This will launch the dialog box below.
Beginning the process to create a policy
On this configuration box, you name the policy, add an optional description, and configure the 
Patch delay
. The Patch delay (oddly named I think) is where you setup the schedule basically. You can choose the time you want to run the updates as well here.
Creating a policy in patchmon v2
Once you create the policy, the next thing you will likely want to do is create a 
host group
 to define which hosts the policy applies to. You can assign to individual hosts, but the host group makes the most sense I think for most and it also allows exclusions. One thing to call out, the 
Host groups
 management is found under 
Settings
 and not under patching. I think this placement is a little odd and not intuitive. I would suggest this be moved to the patching menu as this is where most will look for it in my opinion.
Creating host groups in patchmon v2
Now, under the 
assignments
 of the update policy, here we can choose the host group that we created.
Assigning a host group to the policy
Wrapping up
All in all, there is a lot to like about Patchmon v2. I was impressed with v1 a few months ago. But there is no comparison with what v2 can now do with the ability to actually perform updates on your Linux, FreeBSD, and also 
Windows servers
. This means you can basically manage updates for all your server estate in the home lab or production with a single solution. And, this is free and open source which is fantastic. What about you? Are you currently trying out Patchmon in your home lab or are you using something else entirely? Let me know in the comments what you think about it.
Add as a preferred source on Google
Google is updating how articles are shown. Don’t miss our leading home lab and tech content, written by humans, by setting 
Virtualization Howto as a preferred source
.
About The Author
Brandon Lee
Brandon Lee is the Senior Writer, Engineer and owner at Virtualizationhowto.com, and a 7-time VMware vExpert, with over two decades of experience in Information Technology. Having worked for numerous Fortune 500 companies as well as in various industries, He has extensive experience in various IT segments and is a strong advocate for open source technologies. Brandon holds many industry certifications, loves the outdoors and spending time with family. Also, he goes through the effort of testing and troubleshooting issues, so you don't have to.
See author's posts
Like this:
Like
Loading…
home lab
Tagged 
home lab
, 
home server
Post navigation
VM Migration in Proxmox Kept Breaking Until I Fixed This CPU Setting
I Tried This New Open Source Kubernetes Dashboard and It’s Surprisingly Good
Related Posts
Why Your Home Lab Feels Slow (And What I Found)
Have you ever had those frustrating moments when running a home lab and you know that everything looks like it is “technically” working, but things just “feel” slow? It is…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
Supermicro IPMI management walkthrough
If you are utilizing Supermicro in your lab environment, there is a great feature that comes with Supermicro boards that allows BMC IPMI management of the server.  It is basically…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
The First Hardware I Always Buy for Any Home Lab
Recently, I covered the first services that you should spin up in a home lab, including core services that are needed to make sure things work as expected with apps…
Like this:
Like
Loading…
4.5
2
votes
Article Rating
Subscribe
Connect with
 Login
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Notify of 
new follow-up comments
new replies to my comments
Label
Name*
Email*
Connect with
I allow to create an account
When you login first time using a Social Login button, we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider, based on your privacy settings. We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website. Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account.
Disagree
Agree
Label
Name*
Email*
6
 Comments                    
Oldest
Newest
Most Voted
 Inline Feedbacks                    
View all comments
Brad Becker

    4 days ago

Have you tried action1?
1
Reply
Brandon Lee
Author

    Reply to 
    

        Brad Becker
    

    3 days ago

Brad,
Thanks for the comment. I have tried action1 and do like it. One thing I like about Patchmon compared to Action1 is it can be self-hosted.
Brandon
0
Reply

    John


    3 days ago

I hate these apps that shouldn’t be in docker or at least have a proper bare metal install. If you need 4+ containers for your app, it’s no longer meant for docker IMO.
1
Reply

    Ed


    Reply to 
    

        John
    

    1 day ago

Thats certainly an opinion you can have, but docker containers are intended to encapsulate a single process per container. So if an app requires multiple parts, it should be broken into multiple containers. These can easily be grouped together in a single docker-compose or k8s deployment. Provisioning an entire VM or worse, bare metal server for this is drastic overkill, and a huge waste of resources.
1
Reply
Brandon Lee
Author

    Reply to 
    

        Ed
    

    1 day ago

Ed,
Great points here and definitely lines up with my thoughts as well.
Brandon
0
Reply
Brandon Lee
Author

    Reply to 
    

        John
    

    1 day ago

John,
Have you had a bad experience with Docker in the past? I have fully embraced Docker for most applications. They make provisioning, infrastructure as code, upgrades, and so many other things much easier, and they save on resources. Also, they are the modern way of self-hosting or even running apps in the enterprise. 
Brandon
0
Reply
Proxmox Server Build Components
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Minisforum BD795M
RackChoice 2U Micro ATX Compact
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
Noctua NH-L9i-17xx, Low-Profile CPU Cooler
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Crucial 96GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Intel X520-DA2 10 GbE Network Adapter
Kingston 240GB Drive for Boot
Samsung 990 Pro 2TB
MX-4 Thermal Paste
Gaming/Proxmox Build 2025
As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases.
Thermaltake Tower 200
Minisforum BD790i X3D
Cooler Master MWE Gold 850 V2
★ New!
Crucial 128GB DDR5 SODIMM Kit
Arctic P12 Slim Fan
PNY NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5080 OC
Predator 1TB NVMe Boot Drive
Samsung 990 Pro 4TB – VM Storage
Copyright © 2026 
Virtualization Howto
wpDiscuz
Insert
%d