The rise of the 'Adderall novel': How our attention spans are changing the way authors write - Los Angeles Times
News
 Home Page 
 California
 Election 2024
 Housing & Homelessness
 Politics
 Science & Medicine
 World & Nation
Business
 Artificial Intelligence
 Autos
 Jobs, Labor & Workplace
 Real Estate
 Technology and the Internet
California
 California Politics 
 Earthquakes
 Education
 Housing & Homelessness
 L.A. Influential
 L.A. Politics 
 Mental Health
Climate & Environment
 Climate Change
 Water & Drought
Entertainment & Arts
 Arts
 Books
 Stand-Up Comedy
 Hollywood Inc.
 The Envelope (Awards)
 Movies
 Music
 Television
 Things to Do
De Los
En Español
Food
 101 Best Restaurants in L.A.
 Recipes
Image
 Art & Culture
 Conversations
 Drip Index: Event Guides
 Fashion 
 Shopping Guides
 Styling Myself
Lifestyle
 Health & Wellness
 Home Design
 L.A. Affairs
 Plants
 Travel & Experiences
 Weekend
 Things to Do in L.A.
Obituaries
Voices
 Editorials
 Letters to the Editor
 Contributors
  Short Docs
Sports
 Angels
 Angel City FC
 Chargers
 Clippers
 Dodgers
 Ducks
 Galaxy 
 High School Sports
 Kings
 Lakers
 Olympics
 USC 
 UCLA 
 Rams
 Sparks
World & Nation
 Immigration & the Border
 Mexico & the Americas
 Middle East
 Ukraine
Times Everywhere
 404 by L.A. Times
 Facebook
 Instagram
 LA Times Today
 Newsletters
 Photography
 Podcasts 
  Short Docs
 TikTok
 Threads
 Video
 YouTube
 X (Twitter) 
For Subscribers
eNewspaper
All Sections
_________________
LA Times Studios
 BUSINESS
 • AI & Tech
 • Automotive
 • Banking & Finance
 • Commercial Real Estate
 • Entertainment
 • Goods & Retail
 • Innovators Unplugged
 • Healthcare & Science
 • Law
 • Sports
 • Orange County
 HOT PROPERTY
 • Decor & Design
 • Homes For Sale
 LIVE & WELL
 • Fitness
 • Beauty
 • Body
 • Longevity
 TRAVEL
 • Trip Ideas
 • Travel Destinations
 • Travel Themes
 • Travel Experiences
 THE HUB: REBUILDING LA
 DOCTORS & SCIENTISTS
 DEALS & COUPONS
 NEWSLETTERS
Live Stream
Events
 Screening Series
Crossword
Games
L.A. Times Store
Subscriptions
 Manage Subscription
 EZPAY
 Delivery Issue
 eNewspaper
 Group Subscriptions
 Subscribe
 Subscriber Terms
 Gift Subscription Terms
About Us 
 About Us
 Archives
 Company News
 eNewspaper
 For the Record
 Got a Tip? 
 L.A. Times Careers
 L.A. Times Store
 LA Times Studios Capabilities
 News App: Apple IOS
 News App: Google Play
 Newsroom Directory
 Public Affairs
 Rights, Clearance & Permissions
  Short Docs
Advertising
 Classifieds
 Find/Post Jobs
 Hot Property Sections
 Local Ads Marketplace
 L.A. Times Digital Agency
 Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times?
 Place an Ad
 Place an Open House
 Sotheby’s International Realty
Special Supplements
 Healthy Living
 Higher Education
 Philanthropy
Sections
Subscribe
 or 
Log In
Profile
Sign Out
Show Search
 Search Query 
Submit Search
Advertisement
Books
The rise of the ‘Adderall novel’: How our attention spans are changing the way authors write
(Los Angeles Times illustration; Photo via Getty Images)
By
Maddie Connors
April 28, 2026 
3 AM PT 
6 min
 Click here to listen to this article 
Share via
Close extra sharing options
Email
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Threads
Reddit
WhatsApp
Copy Link URL
Copied!
Print
0:00
0:00
 1x 
 This is read by an automated voice. Please report any issues or inconsistencies 
here
. 
“In August: all the pharmacies in New York run out of Adderall: A Supply Chain Breakdown,” begins Anika Jade Levy’s 2025 debut novel, 
“Flat Earth.” 
What follows is a story told in hasty paragraphs, pithy fragments and cynical dispatches from a conspiracy theory-infested America. Yet the novel, while uniquely contemporary, joins a larger canon of fragmentary novels that resonate in our digital age of dwindling attention spans.
“Dept. of Speculation” by Jenny Offill
 is a forebear of the short-and-sweet literary canon. “The vogue when I was writing ‘Dept. of Speculation’ was for realist doorstopper books that were self-consciously about big ideas,” explains the novelist, who published her now-classic fragmentary novel in 2014. “Short novels and so-called autofiction were not being published much.”
Like the protagonists of Levy’s novel, today’s readers want speed. Like the population of American readers, page counts in contemporary literature have been shrinking. This includes paragraphs, even sentences. Epic novels like the 800-page “Anna Karenina” have fallen out of favor, replaced by short, incisive literature that mimics our digital lives. A 2022 study by 
WordsRated
, an international research group, showed that bestselling books are getting shorter. The study found that within the last decade, the average length of a New York Times bestseller dropped by more than 50 pages.
Advertisement
Books
For Subscribers
101 best book club picks for every type of reader
From romance and memoirs to mystery and fantasy, here are the 101 best book club picks, according to a survey of more than 200 authors, publishers, journalists and book club fans.
April 9, 2026
“If you go back 100 years and look for an amazing book to read, it’s probably going to be 500 to 600 pages long,” said Mitchum Huehls, 
an English professor at UCLA
. “If you do that today, you’re hard-pressed to find a great book that’s 500 to 600 pages long.”
The answer is complicated and dictated by trends in literature. 
John Steinbeck
’s classic 1952 novel “East of Eden” begins with a lengthy and exhaustive description of the Salinas Valley. This masterful rumination on setting seems like an anomaly in contemporary literature. “I think literature used to be much more committed to creating a world, creating a scene,” Huehls said. “Now it’s a lot about plot and action or character — not so much setting and scene location, which is what you get with Tolstoy or John Dos Passos.”
While shortening attention spans may be to blame for the shift in literature, Huehls argues that some writers are intentionally engaging with it. The resulting novels are poignant, urgent and brilliant. “There’s also a lot of interesting formal experimentation — taking technological forms and integrating them, or running literary questions up against those forms,” he said, citing writers like Offill, Jennifer Egan, Tao Lin and 
Ling Ma
, who have found ways to merge technology into the literary canon.
Books
Is that your kid’s drawing or the cover of the hottest new novel?
From fashion runways to the covers of books, a trendy “naive” aesthetic is ditching polished perfection for the deliberate messiness of childhood.
March 16, 2026
Levy said she was influenced by the fragmentary literary canon while writing “Flat Earth.” “I think that speedy prose is actually pretty timeless. You look at Renata Adler’s ‘Speedboat’ — it’s right there in the title,” Levy said of the 1976 novel. “The concerns of the book are very contemporary, but on a formal and line level, I was working in a tradition.”
Levy argues that fragmentary writing feels more authentic to current reality. “Contemporary life feels increasingly episodic. It’s hard for me to conceive of my existence as a linear narrative with a coherent arc. So fragmented writing feels like a formal way into writing realism when I’ve never experienced reality as a single, continuous story,” she said.
Levy was shaped by the fragmentary canon while writing “Flat Earth.” She cites Mary Robison’s “Why Did I Ever,” Adler’s “Speedboat
”
 and Offill as influences. “I read ‘Dept. of Speculation’ when it came out, but I returned to it when I was editing ‘Flat Earth’ to figure out how to deal with dialogue, scene work and transitions inside of a fragmented constraint.”
Advertisement
Books
There’s a Thomas Pynchon book for everyone. Here’s which one to read next
From ‘The Crying of Lot 49’ to ‘Vineland,’ discover why Thomas Pynchon’s famously ‘difficult’ novels can actually be for any type of reader
April 9, 2026
“It’s the combination of everything I write being really derivative and informed by everything I’ve ever read and then trying to do something new,” Levy said.
In 2014, Offill’s novel “Dept. of Speculation
”
 was published and became lauded for its fragmentary style, often unwieldy single sentences that offered a complicated portrait of marriage. In 2015, the book was shortlisted for the 
PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction
.
The novel became an artifact of the contemporary moment. “I feel overwhelmed by the amount of information that comes at me on any given day. When I write, I want to try to quiet the noise by paring my thoughts down to what feels most essential,” Offill said. “Emotional momentum is very important to me, and I try to create a feeling of that in my work. To do that, I try to follow Waldo Salt’s dictum: ‘Art is the elimination of the unnecessary.’”
Offill stumbled upon the style organically as a new mother, she explained. “I wrote ‘Dept. of Speculation’ in little scraps just after I had a baby,” she says. “The style evolved out of necessity at first, but I was also trying to find a way to capture the fragmentary nature of my thoughts and the strange way time seemed to be moving in fits and starts.”
While the fragmentary style mirrors the internet age, Offill doesn’t necessarily think the trend is permanent. “I think literature is always adapting to the moment we live in,” she said. “I’m not on social media, and my short novels take me a ridiculous number of years to write, but like everyone else, I’m influenced by the internet and the endless options of what to watch and listen to and read.”
Offill predicts a near future in which readers will once again rejoice in epic novels. “Lately, I think we’re swinging back in the direction of ‘the big, baggy monster’ idea of what a novel is,” Offill remarks. “I’ve seen a lot of new writers who seem to be following in the footsteps of the Austrian writer Thomas Bernhard, writing novels with sentences that go on for pages and pages. I’m a Bernhard fan, so I’m interested to see where this goes. I’d like to think that there’s room for all of these styles.”
Advertisement
Connors is a writer living in Los Angeles. She hosts the literary reading event 
Unreliable Narrators
 at Nico’s Wines in Atwater Village every month.
More to Read 
20 books we can’t wait to read in 2026
Jan. 30, 2026
L.A. Affairs: We reached a critical moment in our relationship. Would we survive it?
Jan. 16, 2026
10 books to read in January, new page-turners from Saunders, Guo, Tallent and more
Dec. 31, 2025
Show Comments
Books
Entertainment & Arts
Sign up for our Books newsletter
Get the latest news, events and more from the Los Angeles Times Book Club, and help us get L.A. reading and talking.
 By continuing, you agree to our 
Terms of Service
, which include arbitration and a class action waiver. You agree that we and our third-party vendors may collect and use your information, including through cookies, pixels and similar technologies, for the purposes set forth in our 
Privacy Policy
 such as personalizing your experience and ads. 
Login or register with email
Agree & Continue 
More From the Los Angeles Times 
Movies
In ‘Remarkably Bright Creatures,’ Sally Field’s co-star is an octopus. She thinks you’ll like it too
May 7, 2026
Books
The week’s bestselling books, May 10
May 6, 2026
Books
Why the star of ‘PEN15’ had to stop talking to her father to finally hear herself
May 5, 2026
Review
Elizabeth Strout’s latest novel probes loneliness and a fractured America
May 5, 2026
Most Read in Books 
Books
10 books to read in May, new page-turners from Sedaris, Stockett and more
May 1, 2026
Books
10 books to read in April, including Jay McInerney’s latest and a Rolling Stones biography
April 2, 2026
Advertisement
Subscribe for unlimited access
Site Map
Follow Us
X
Instagram
YouTube
Facebook
 eNewspaper
 Find/Post Jobs
 Place an Ad
 Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? 
 Invest Now: Own a Part of History
MORE FROM THE L.A. TIMES 
 Crossword
 Obituaries
 Recipes
 Guides
 L.A. Times Store
 About/Contact
 For the Record
 L.A. Times Careers
 Manage Subscription
 Reprints and Permissions
Copyright © 2026, Los Angeles Times | 
Terms of Service
 | 
Privacy Policy
 | 
CA Notice of Collection
 | 
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information