Microsoft warns worrying security flaw exposed over 50 million Android users, says 'user credentials and financial data were exposed to risk' | TechRadar
Skip to main content
Tech Radar
Tech Radar Pro
Tech Radar Gaming
Open menu
Close main menu
TechRadar
the business technology experts
NZ Edition
Asia

Singapore

Europe

Danmark

Suomi

Norge

Sverige

UK

Italia

Nederland

België (Nederlands)

France

Deutschland

España

North America

US (English)

Canada

México

Australasia

Australia

New Zealand

RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search TechRadar

News


Reviews


Features


Perspectives


Website builders


Web hosting


Security

Don't miss these
Security
Critical security flaw in DotNetNuke CMS affects 750,000 websites
VPN Privacy & Security
Microsoft's baffling account ban blocks security patches for Windscribe, WireGuard VPN, VeraCrypt
Security
Experts flag potentially critical security issues at heart of Anthropic MCP
Security
60,000 WordPress sites at risk due to plugin security flaw
Security
Over 29 million secrets were leaked on GitHub in 2025, and AI really isn't helping
Security
Three high-risk AI vulnerabilities discovered in Claude.ai – end-to-end attack chain exfiltrates sensitive info without user knowing
Security
LangChain framework hit by several worrying security issues
Windows
Expert warns of Windows 11 Recall risk while Microsoft denies danger
Security
OpenAI patches flaw allowing silent data leakage from ChatGPT conversations
Security
FBI urges users not to download Chinese mobile apps over privacy risks
Security
An ancient Microsoft Excel security flaw could let hackers hijack your entire system, so patch now
Security
Security experts discover critical flaw in OpenAI's Codex able to compromise entire organizations
Security
'This rootkit is highly persistent; a standard factory reset will not remove it': "NoVoice" Android malware on Google Play infects 50 apps across 2.3 million devices, here's what we know
Security
Fortinet patches FortiGate Firewall vulnerabilities that allowed hackers to steal enterprise credentials
VPN Privacy & Security
Problems with your Android VPN? Proton VPN warns it's Google's fault
Tech Radar Pro
Are you a pro? Subscribe to our newsletter
Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed!
Become a Member in Seconds
 Unlock instant access to exclusive member features.

Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands


Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors

There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again.

By submitting your information you agree to the 
Terms & Conditions
 and 
Privacy Policy
 and are aged 16 or over.

You are now subscribed
Your newsletter sign-up was successful
Join the club
Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards.
Explore
 An account already exists for this email address, please log in.
Trending
Best office chairs
Best 3D printers
Best antivirus
Best web hosting
Best website builder
Pro
Security
Microsoft warns worrying security flaw exposed over 50 million Android users, says 'user credentials and financial data were exposed to risk'
News

By

Sead Fadilpašić

published

10 April 2026
An outdated SDK carries a dangerous flaw

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. 
Here’s how it works
.

(Image credit: Shutterstock / tomeqs)

Copy link


Facebook


X


Whatsapp


Reddit


Pinterest


Flipboard


Threads


Email


Share this article

0

Join the conversation


Follow us


Add us as a preferred source on Google


Newsletter


Subscribe to our newsletter

Microsoft found EngageLab SDK flaw affecting 50 million Android devices
Vulnerability let apps bypass sandbox and access private data
At least 30 million installs were crypto apps, patched in v5.2.1
Roughly 50 million Android devices were using apps with vulnerabilities that allowed threat actors to access private data stored on those devices, experts have warned. Many of those installations were cryptocurrency apps, which only made the problem bigger.
Security researchers from 
Microsoft
 said they identified an “intent redirection vulnerability” in EngageLab SDK, a popular software development kit that helps build user engagement features such as push notifications or in-app messaging.
"This flaw allows apps on the same device to bypass Android security sandbox and gain unauthorized access to private data," Microsoft wrote in its report.
Article continues below 
Watch full video here: ChatGPT vs. Claude
Latest Videos From TechRadar
ChatGPT vs. Claude
0 seconds of 1 minute, 29 seconds
Volume 0%
Press shift question mark to access a list of keyboard shortcuts
Keyboard Shortcuts
Enabled
Disabled
Shortcuts Open/Close
/ or ?
Play/Pause
SPACE
Increase Volume
↑
Decrease Volume
↓
Seek Forward
→
Seek Backward
←
Captions On/Off
c
Fullscreen/Exit Fullscreen
f
Mute/Unmute
m
Decrease Caption Size
-
Increase Caption Size
+ or =
Seek %
0-9
Next Up
AI Planned It, Ep 1- PC Build
01:30
 facebook
 x
 reddit
 Link
https://cdn.jwplayer.com/previews/aMlX5Mrd
Copied
Live
00:00
01:29
0:46
More Videos
01:29
ChatGPT vs. Claude
01:30
AI Planned It, Ep 1- PC Build
01:27
ExplAIned- Apple Intelligence Vs Galaxy AI
01:29
AI Planned It, Ep 2
Close

            You may like
        
Shock report claims Android apps have leaked over 730TB of user data and Google secrets - here are some of the worst offenders around
How hackers can steal PINs and private data from over a billion Android devices
Top photo ID apps leak user data - over 150,000 thought to have been affected
Removing vulnerable apps
Intent is a mechanism in Android, used for communication between apps (or between multiple components inside a single app). It acts as a message object carrying data and instructions, allowing a component to request an action from another (such as opening an activity, or triggering a function).
While any app can send an intent, whether it’s accepted depends on the identity and permissions of the sending app.
Microsoft did not say which apps contained the vulnerable SDK but said that at least 30 million of the downloads fell on cryptocurrency apps. The bug was discovered in April 2025, in version 4.5.4. It was patched in November the same year, in version 5.2.1.
All of the apps built with the bugged SDK were removed from 
Google
’s 
Play Store
, it was said.
Are you a pro? Subscribe to our newsletter
Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed!
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the 
Terms & Conditions
 and 
Privacy Policy
 and are aged 16 or over.
Microsoft also stated that it found no evidence of malicious actors discovering this flaw beforehand and using it as a zero-day in real-life attacks. However, developers are urged to update the SDK to the newest version as soon as possible.
"This case shows how weaknesses in third‑party SDKs can have large‑scale security implications, especially in high‑value sectors like digital asset management," Microsoft said. "Apps increasingly rely on third‑party SDKs, creating large and often opaque supply‑chain dependencies. These risks increase when integrations expose exported components or rely on trust assumptions that aren’t validated across app boundaries."
Via 
The Hacker News
The best antivirus for all budgets
Our top picks, based on real-world testing and comparisons
➡️ 
Read our full guide to the best antivirus
1. Best overall:
Bitdefender Total Security
2. Best for families:
Norton 360 with LifeLock
3. Best for mobile:
McAfee Mobile Security
Follow TechRadar on Google News
 and
add us as a preferred source
 to get our expert news, reviews, and opinion in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
And of course you can also 
follow TechRadar on TikTok
 for news, reviews, unboxings in video form, and get regular updates from us on 
WhatsApp
 too.
Sead Fadilpašić
Social Links Navigation
Sead is a seasoned freelance journalist based in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. He writes about IT (cloud, IoT, 5G, VPN) and cybersecurity (ransomware, data breaches, laws and regulations). In his career, spanning more than a decade, he’s written for numerous media outlets, including Al Jazeera Balkans. He’s also held several modules on content writing for Represent Communications.
View More
You must confirm your public display name before commenting
Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name.

Logout

Read more
Security
Shock report claims Android apps have leaked over 730TB of user data and Google secrets - here are some of the worst offenders around
Security
How hackers can steal PINs and private data from over a billion Android devices
Security
Top photo ID apps leak user data - over 150,000 thought to have been affected
Security
Security study finds thousands of API credentials exposed on the web for years
Security
Multiple mental health apps riddled with high severity security flaws — data of millions put at risk, so be on your guard
Security
Google patches 129 Android security flaws — including a potentially dangerous Qualcomm zero-day
Latest in Security
Security
Microsoft phishing threat report shows 146% surge in quishing
Security
FBI says hackers are making millions from stolen cargo - losses 'surged' to nearly $725 million in 2025
Security
"Copy Fail" flaw impacts all Linux kernels released since 2017
Security
Social Security numbers exposed by US Medicare directory
Security
New cPanel vulnerability can grant root server access, so patch now
Security
New report claims Trump is the most-deepfaked US politicans with over half of cases — these 3 political figures drive 74% of all threats
Latest in News
Computing
Apple’s Mac mini now has a higher starting price
Gaming
'Your duty is not yet done' — Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine 2 is so popular that it's getting another year of content
Gaming
This is not a drill: Terry Crews has come to Call of Duty
Tech
ICYMI: here the week's 8 biggest tech stories 
Steam Deck
Rocket League proves Linux Anti Cheat support is possible for everyone
Gaming
Free-to-play mobile game The Division Resurgence is launching on PC in August as Ubisoft shares new roadmap details, but you can play it right now
Advertisement
Advertisement
LATEST ARTICLES
1
ICYMI: here the week's 8 biggest tech stories 
2
The Apple Watch's most innovative running feature is one you've probably never used
3
Apple Mac Studio M2 vs iMac M4: Which is the one for you?
4
Quordle hints and answers for Saturday, May 2 (game #1559)
5
NYT Connections hints and answers for Saturday, May 2 (game #1056)
Useful links
Best VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Web Hosting Service
Best Website Builder
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Gaming PC
Best PC Gaming Chair
Best Phone
Best TV
Best Oled TVs
Best Smartwatch
Best Turntables
Best Noise Cancelling Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Office Chairs
Best Camera
Best Dash Cam
Best Drones
Best Robot Vacuums

TechRadar is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. 
Visit our corporate site
.

Add as a preferred source on Google
About Us
Contact Future's experts
Contact Us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Advertise with us
Web notifications
Accessibility Statement
Careers
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 
Close

Please login or signup to comment

Please wait...

Login


Sign Up
