Two different attackers poisoned popular open source tools
Jump to main content
Search
TOPICS
Security
All Security
Cyber-crime
Patches
Research
CSO
Off-Prem
All Off-Prem
Edge + IoT
Channel
PaaS + IaaS
SaaS
On-Prem
All On-Prem
Systems
Storage
Networks
HPC
Personal Tech
Cx0
Public Sector
Software
All Software
AI + ML
Applications
Databases
DevOps
OSes
Virtualization
Offbeat
All Offbeat
Columnists
Science
BOFH
Legal
Bootnotes
Site News
About Us
Special Features
All Special Features
HPE: AI Explainers
RSA Conference
Agentic AI
The Future of the Datacenter
AWS:Reinvent
Nvidia GTC
SC25
Supercomputing Month
Vendor Voice
All Vendor Voice
Infinidat
Everpure
Rubrik
Make it real with Capgemini and AWS
Money Movement Hub
ZTE
Nutanix: Scale Kubernetes. Not Chaos.
AWS New Horizon
Resources
Intelligence
Webinars & Events
Newsletters
Search
Sign in
Datacenter
Security
Microsoft
AWS
Developer
Open Source
IT Careers
Columnists
Who, Me?
On Call
REG AD
Security
Two different attackers poisoned popular open source tools - and showed us the future of supply chain compromise
Time to start dropping SBOMs
Jessica Lyons
Jessica
Lyons
31
Published
Sat 11 Apr 2026 
//
 11:11 UTC
FEATURE
 Two supply chain attacks in March infected open source tools with malware and used this access to steal secrets from tens of thousands – if not more – organizations. We won't know the full blast radius for months.
Both targeted popular open source projects that are used by a ton of organizations and integrated into countless software products, apps, and developer environments.
First, 
attackers hit Trivy
, a vulnerability scanner with more than 100,000 users and contributors that is embedded in thousands of CI/CD pipelines. Up next: 
Axios
, an open-source JavaScript library that has about 100 million weekly downloads and runs in 80 percent of cloud and code environments.
REG AD
"Both of these campaigns will likely play out over several months," Mandiant Consulting CTO Charles Carmakal told 
The Register
. "The data that was taken a few weeks ago will likely be leveraged this week, next week, next month – probably for several months – and the blast radius will continue to expand."
REG AD
Although executed by different attackers – Axios by North Korean-linked goons, and Trivy et al. by a loosely knit band of smash-and-grab miscreants called TeamPCP – both had similar end goals, a deep understanding of developer environments, and advanced social engineering skills.
According to security experts, the incidents demonstrate the future of supply-chain attacks.
"We are seeing more and more developers targeted by this type of activity," Cisco Talos outreach lead Nick Biasini told 
The Register
. "Attackers are starting to really look at the supply chain and open source packages, and figure out ways to compromise developers to deliver malware or gather data, depending on the type of threat."
It's going to become even more frequent as attackers use AI to make their social engineering campaigns more believable and hyper-personalized to targeted people and organizations, Biasini added.
"In today's world, with AI and the kind of public personas that people keep, it's increasingly easy to build attacks," he said. "If there's a lot of money at stake, there's going to be a lot of people running to cash in. So with this success, I expect to see more."
Vuln scanner as initial attack vector
TeamPCP compromised Trivy, an open source vulnerability scanner maintained by Aqua Security in late February, then injected credential-stealing malware into the scanner on March 16 through the binary, GitHub Actions, and container images. This malware hoovered up CI/CD secrets, cloud credentials, SSH keys, and Kubernetes configuration files, and planted persistent backdoors on developers' machines. It also gave the attacks an initial access vector into several other open source tools.
Then, on March 23, the same crew used CI/CD secrets stolen from the Trivy intrusion to inject the same malware into open source static analysis tool KICS, maintained by Checkmarx. Days later, TeamPCP 
published malicious versions of LiteLLM
 and 
Telnyx
 to the Python Package Index (PyPI), both of which use Trivy in their CI/CD pipeline.
REG AD
"I think they went after security tools deliberately," Ben Read, who leads the cyber threat intel team at Wiz, told 
The Register
. "It could be giving the finger to people and brashness, or they saw a market opportunity because odd things happen in security environments, and they don't get watched as closely. But the bigger picture is: This stuff is very accessible."
TeamPCP, the group behind the Trivy and other open source supply chain attacks, first showed up on the cybercrime scene at the end of 2025, targeting cloud environments in data-theft and extortion operations.
Their style was very much smash-and-grab. It was primarily about speed, just grabbing everything, and getting out quickly.
Researchers at Flare, a threat exposure management provider, were among the first to 
sound the alarm about TeamPCP
. In December, Flare detailed how the hacking crew exploited misconfigured Docker APIs, Kubernetes APIs, Ray dashboards, Redis servers, and vulnerable React/Next.js applications. After compromising one workload, the criminals used that access to move laterally across entire clusters, monetizing stolen data for ransom and using exposed infrastructure for crypto-mining, proxy networks, scanning, and data hosting.
"The operation's goals were to build a distributed proxy and scanning infrastructure at scale, then compromise servers to exfiltrate data, deploy ransomware, conduct extortion, and mine cryptocurrency," Flare analysts wrote at the time.
"Initially, there's not a ton to distinguish them from the other, relatively noisy, financially motivated groups claiming stuff online," Read said.
Infosec researchers believe TeamPCP is a loosely knit group of young people, primarily English speakers inspired by influencer culture and YouTube trends. The miscreants like to brag about their exploits on Telegram and Discord channels, a trait they share with other attack gangs like The Com, Lapsus$, Scattered Spider, and ShinyHunters.
"They're clearly inspired by the communication style of Lapsus$," Read said, noting the group 
points to a Rickroll video
 in its malicious domain, and hid a secret message saying "thank you for not being a vibe researcher" in its blockchain-based command-and-control infrastructure.
"They're aware people are watching them, and they are leaning into that, trying to create this vision of themselves," he added.
REG AD
Plus, as the group's December attacks and then Trivy compromise showed, TeamPCP "definitely know the developer environment well," Read said. "And they are clearly leaning on LLMs to develop some of their code."
Developer environments tend to be well-documented - and this lends itself to using LLMs to assist in finding misconfigurations, and writing and injecting malicious code into packages.
"Their style was very much smash-and-grab," in all four of the open source compromises, Read says. "In all of the cases, they were found in less than 12 hours. They were not trying to mask stuff or find one valuable thing and get out silently. It was primarily about speed, just grabbing everything, and getting out quickly."
Even if the attack wasn't elegant, it still amassed a huge volume of credentials – "so large, that the adversary started soliciting support from a variety of other threat actors to do things with the stolen credentials," Carmakal said.
North of 10,000 organizations were likely impacted
In total, TeamPCP stole credentials for more than 10,000 organizations, according to Carmakal, although that doesn't necessarily mean they've since compromised that many environments to steal data or perform other nefarious acts.
"North of 10,000 organizations were likely impacted," he said. "It was really interesting and quite alarming to see how many credentials these folks had successfully obtained from a whole bunch of compromise endpoints."
Carmakal doubts the gang has ended its rampage. "We assess that the threat actor, as long as they continue to leverage these credentials and these secrets, they'll likely continue to compromise more environments," he said. "As they compromise more environments, they'll get more secrets, more credentials, and keep going until they choose to stop, or law enforcement takes action, or there's some other disruption activity that occurs."
In another open source galaxy, not so far away...
Then, just two weeks after Trivy, another supply chain attack hit a different open-source library.
On March 31, Axios, one of npm's most widely used HTTP client libraries, became a malware delivery vehicle for about three hours after attackers hijacked a maintainer's account and slipped a remote-access trojan (RAT) into two seemingly legitimate releases.
Google's Threat Intelligence Group attributed the attack to a suspected North Korean threat actor it tracks as UNC1069.
"North Korean hackers have deep experience with supply chain attacks, which they've historically used to steal cryptocurrency," GTIG chief analyst John Hultquist told 
The Register
 at the time. "The full breadth of this incident is still unclear, but given the popularity of the compromised package, we expect it will have far reaching impacts."
Axios' primary maintainer Jason Saayman later published a 
detailed post-mortem
, and said the tactics mirrored Google's February analysis of 
UNC1069
, and its use of AI-enabled social engineering to target cryptocurrency companies with custom malware.
The attackers reached out to Saayman pretending to be a company founder – after creating a digital clone of the real company and its founders. They also built a realistic Slack workspace, complete with employee profiles and posts, and then invited Saayman to join.
"The gentleman who was the initial victim got an invite to collaborate," Read said. "This is how the internet is supposed to work: Two people from across the globe collaborating on a project that helps other people. But it was North Korea."
After gaining Saayman's trust, the criminals lured him into joining a Teams meeting. When he joined, however, Teams told Saayman his software was out of date, and he needed to install an update to continue. "This was the RAT," he wrote in the post-mortem.
The malware gave UNC1069 access to Saayman's machine, and this allowed them to push malicious updates to the Axios project, ensuing any system that installed the compromised packages during the three-hour window downloaded a stealer that exfiltrated users private keys and credentials, sending them to an attacker-controlled server.
This was the RAT
The number of downstream victims is unknown.
"This was a very sophisticated campaign," Biasini said. "They did a lot to compromise this particular victim, and there's not a lot that would have tipped them that there were problems."
North Korean criminals have targeted developers – and companies looking to hire developers – for years, with state-sponsored offensive cyber operations that include 
cryptocurrency theft
, 
ransomware and extortion attacks
, and 
IT worker scams
. More recently, they've also begun directly going after developers, using lures like 
job interviews and meetings
 to compromise their machines and steal credentials and cryptocurrency wallets.
"North Korea's got this flywheel of understanding, where they've got the IT workers who are getting real jobs, and they also understand developer environments and how they work from a technical perspective," Read said. "From what we've seen, and what we tell our customers: This is going to keep happening."
What to expect when you're defending
Both supply-chain attacks illustrate how adversaries will always choose the path of least resistance, whether that means logging in with compromised credentials or social engineering the sole maintainer on an open source project that underpins most of the internet.
"They realize that instead of trying to bang my way into these companies, it's much better for me to go after the one, maybe two people that are maintaining this open source package," Biasini said. "And by compromising these packages, they can create a huge amount of opportunity in a wide array of spaces."
If there's a silver lining to be had, it's that both incidents "created a whole bunch of awareness of this problem that everybody's dealing with right now with compromised packages," Carmakal said. "And it reintroduces the conversation of SBOMs - software bill-of-materials."
This essentially serves as an 
"ingredients list" for software components
, including open source, third-party, and proprietary code.
"The biggest thing that you can do is understand where your risk is," Biasini said. "If a supply-chain attack happens, you should be able to quickly determine where is this package being used in our environment, and where are our potential infection points? The best thing you can do as defenders is make sure that you have those SBOMs, understand where these packages are, and try and triage as quickly as you can."
Biasini suggests using AI agents to help. "This would be a great place to leverage AI," he said. "Start turning on AI agents to identify where these open source projects are in your environment."
All of the security experts we spoke with noted the rapid detection time in these supply chain attacks. "Within 12 hours in most cases," Read said. "This wasn't something that was lying there silently for a long time."
There will always be a window between whenever code is poisoned and the time it's detected in a supply-chain attack. That window presents an opportunity for organizations to avoid downloading malware onto their systems and machines, he added.
"If you create a rule in your development environments where you don't download any versions newer than 24 hours, you would have skipped these," Read said. "It's easy to say, hard to enforce consistently, especially with Jim from accounting spinning up Claude and now everybody's a developer."
Still, enforcing some type of short delay, coupled with SBOMs, knowing what software runs on which machines, and where secrets live, can help organizations better "respond and prioritize efficiently," he added.
MORE CONTEXT
AI recruiting biz Mercor says it was 'one of thousands' hit in LiteLLM supply-chain attack
Supply chain blast: Top npm package backdoored to drop dirty RAT on dev machines
1K+ cloud environments infected following Trivy supply chain attack
CPUID site hijacked to serve malware instead of HWMonitor downloads
"Social engineering isn't going away," according to Biasini. "It's going to get really bad with deep fakes, voice cloning, and video cloning. Organizations should already be planning for secure phrases, secure objects." He's talking about a physical object, something you have on your desk that you can pick up and prove your identity to the person on the other end of the video call.
"Making sure that you have the things in place now to deal with the stuff that's going to be coming, because soon you're going to have your CEO or your boss showing up on a video call demanding that you do something that seems odd. And if you don't have these protections built in already, it's going to be hard to stand them up." ®
security
open source
google cloud
talos
supply chain
31
REG AD

Software

macOS 27 threatens to bury Time Capsule, FOSS brings a shovel


    Apple's old backup boxes only speak AFP and SMB1, but NetBSD under the hood gives them one last shot


Offbeat

London’s BT Tower to get rooftop swimming pool


    Imagine taking a dip 177m above the streets of London’s West End


AI + ML

AI inference just plays by different rules


    Why no cloud storage architecture was designed for what agentic AI is about to demand


Networks

Akamai surges on big LLM deal as Cloudflare dims


    Good times, bad times


AI + ML

Trump jumps from 'anything goes' to 'strict regulation' AI policy


    In a word, 'Huh?'


AI and ML

GPT-5.5 may burn fewer tokens, but it always burns more cash


    It’s not just gas prices skyrocketing. Frontier-model pricing keeps climbing too


                    MOST POPULAR
                
Cyber-crime
Taiwan cops say student's radio kit brought bullet trains to a standstill
off-prem
IBM Cloud evaporates as datacenter loses power
AI + ML
Chrome silently installs a 4 GB local LLM on your computer
AI + ML
Brit mathematician lets AI agent loose with credit card – cue password leaks, CAPTCHA chaos and more
Software
Firefox integrates an ad-blocker, but not to block ads
EVENTS
Securing the Untrusted Agentic Development Layer
Join us to learn how to architect a development environment where your builders and their agents can move fast and securely.
Toxic Flows: When Your AI Agent Skill Becomes a Supply Chain Attack
When a developer installs an AI agent skill – granting it access to secured IT resources and data – they make a significant trust decision.
The Hardware Crunch: How Supply Chain Turbulence Is Forcing a New IT Playbook
Infrastructure teams are facing a perfect storm: extended hardware lead times, rising costs driven by AI demand, and accelerated platform timelines.
Identity Resilience: The New Mandate for Cyber Survival
Join Druva experts for a compelling deep dive into what it takes to build an identity-first recovery strategy in this new threat landscape.
Identity Resilience: The New Mandate for Cyber Survival
Join Druva experts for a compelling deep dive into what it takes to build an identity-first recovery strategy in this new threat landscape.
Unfriendly Followers: The Black Market For Your Identity
They’ll reveal how attackers use your profile as intel and show you how to make yourself harder to target
AI Found the Problem. Now What?
AI is transforming the software development lifecycle, helping teams identify and remediate vulnerabilities before they reach production.

            EXPLORE ALL OF OUR EVENTS
        
AI
Software
macOS 27 threatens to bury Time Capsule, FOSS brings a shovel
Apple's old backup boxes only speak AFP and SMB1, but NetBSD under the hood gives them one last shot
Offbeat
London’s BT Tower to get rooftop swimming pool
Imagine taking a dip 177m above the streets of London’s West End
Public Sector
UK wants fresh fingerprints on £300M biometrics platform
Home Office probes supplier interest as core police and immigration system heads for support shake-up
Add section name here
Akamai surges on big LLM deal as Cloudflare dims
Good times, bad times
ai and ml
GPT-5.5 may burn fewer tokens, but it always burns more cash
It’s not just gas prices skyrocketing. Frontier-model pricing keeps climbing too
Infosec
Software
macOS 27 threatens to bury Time Capsule, FOSS brings a shovel
Apple's old backup boxes only speak AFP and SMB1, but NetBSD under the hood gives them one last shot
Offbeat
London’s BT Tower to get rooftop swimming pool
Imagine taking a dip 177m above the streets of London’s West End
Public Sector
UK wants fresh fingerprints on £300M biometrics platform
Home Office probes supplier interest as core police and immigration system heads for support shake-up
Add section name here
Akamai surges on big LLM deal as Cloudflare dims
Good times, bad times
ai and ml
GPT-5.5 may burn fewer tokens, but it always burns more cash
It’s not just gas prices skyrocketing. Frontier-model pricing keeps climbing too
FOSS
macOS 27 threatens to bury Time Capsule, FOSS brings a shovel
Apple's old backup boxes only speak AFP and SMB1, but NetBSD under the hood gives them one last shot
London’s BT Tower to get rooftop swimming pool
Imagine taking a dip 177m above the streets of London’s West End
UK wants fresh fingerprints on £300M biometrics platform
Home Office probes supplier interest as core police and immigration system heads for support shake-up
Akamai surges on big LLM deal as Cloudflare dims
Good times, bad times
GPT-5.5 may burn fewer tokens, but it always burns more cash
It’s not just gas prices skyrocketing. Frontier-model pricing keeps climbing too
Tech is now rolling out the old grievance grift
Not just for hated US Presidents, now even tech bros lament their foes
FEATURES
GNOME may rule Ubuntu Resolute Raccoon, but X.org isn't roadkill yet
OpenClaw, but in containers: Meet NanoClaw
Open source registries don't have enough money to implement basic security
Contain your Windows apps inside Linux Windows
The Linux mid-life crisis that's an opportunity for Tux-led transformation
Too much AI for some, too little for others: Why AMD can't win with investors
How agentic AI can strain modern memory hierarchies
'Ralph Wiggum' loop prompts Claude to vibe-clone commercial software for $10 an hour
How one developer used Claude to build a memory-safe extension of C
No one talking about a datacenter could be a sign one is coming
✕
Biting the hand that feeds IT
About Us

Contact us
Advertise with us
Who we are
Our Websites

The Next Platform
DevClass
Blocks and Files
Situation Publishing
Your Privacy

Cookies Policy
Privacy Policy
Ts & Cs
Do not share my personal information
Your Consent Options
Archives
27 years of articles

        Copyright. All rights reserved © 1998-2026.
    