Ending parental leave? Tips for a successful return to work : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
NPR 24 Hour Program Stream
On Air Now
Hourly News
Listen Live
My Playlist

                    Open Navigation Menu
                
Newsletters
Sign In
Personalize Your Experience
NPR Shop
Donate
Local Station
NPR Network

                    Close 
Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music

        Tiny Desk
    

        New Music Friday
    

        All Songs Considered
    

        Music Features
    

        Live Sessions
    
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily

                                    Morning Edition
                                

                                    Weekend Edition Saturday
                                

                                    Weekend Edition Sunday
                                

                                    All Things Considered
                                

                                    Up First
                                

                                    Here & Now
                                

                                    NPR Politics Podcast
                                
Featured

        Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!
    

        Fresh Air
    

        Wild Card with Rachel Martin
    

        It's Been a Minute
    

        Planet Money
    

                                    Get NPR+
                                
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Sign In
Personalize Your Experience

        Tiny Desk
    

        New Music Friday
    

        All Songs Considered
    

        Music Features
    

        Live Sessions
    
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Ending parental leave? Tips for a successful return to work
Going back to work after having a baby can be overwhelming. You're juggling all the emotions of being a new parent while getting up to speed at your job. Tips to help you make a smooth transition.
Life Kit
Tools To Help You Get It Together
Health
Money
Parenting
Dear Life Kit
Life Skills
Podcast
Newsletter
Twitter
Do less, ask for more: How to make life easier as a working parent 
April 17, 2026
5:00 AM ET
By 

      Andee Tagle
    
, 

      Malaka Gharib
    

        
        Maki Nakamura/Getty
        
    
The first day I returned to work after parental leave, I sat down at my desk, logged into my computer — and silently sobbed right up until my first morning meeting.
Life Kit
How to be a working parent? Lower your standards
How to be a working parent? Lower your standards
Listen
·
 25:53
25-Minute Listen
Playlist
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<
iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5781308/nx-s1-mx-5781308-1" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript

        
        NPR
        
    
Life Kit
LISTEN & FOLLOW
            
Fill 10
Created with Sketch.

                          NPR App

                          Apple Podcasts

                          Spotify

                        Amazon Music

                        iHeart Radio

                        YouTube Music

                          RSS link
The guilt of leaving my child, the anxiety of starting over at my job, the stress of managing both worlds at once: it was the ultimate case of the Mondays.
Transitioning from "worker" to "parent" to "working parent" can be a shock to the system, says 
Amy Beacom
, founder and CEO of the Center for Parental Leave Leadership. 
Parents are often "learning two new roles fast, under a lot of pressure with lack of sleep, zero guidance and zero support," she says. 
Sponsor Message
That's especially the case for mothers. The United States is the only 
industrialized nation without federal paid leave
, and one 2012 report found that 
1 in 4 women
 go back to work within two weeks of having a baby. 
While I was one of the lucky ones — I had several months of protected, paid leave — coming back was still a struggle and a huge adjustment. 
So whether you're about to return to work or already back, there are ways to set yourself up for success, Beacom says.
Make work 
work
 better for you 
Too often, returning parents assume their jobs and schedules are set in stone, so they don't ask their managers for what they want, Beacom says. 
But for the most part, companies "want you happy, engaged and supported," she says — so you may be surprised by what they agree to.
Life Kit 
Bad bosses, low pay, big mistakes: How to navigate the pitfalls of starting a new job
Beacom shares a few ideas to smoothen your reentry. 
What does a good first day, week and month look like?
 If possible, make a plan and propose it to your manager before you take your leave, " so everyone is thinking about that reentry even before you go," says Beacom.
Set a date for a brief check-in with your employer 
while you're gone, so both sides can feel more confident and prepared about what's needed for your return, says Beacom.
Plan to return mid-week 
so you can give yourself time to quietly warm up, clear your inbox and then come back full swing the following week.
Negotiate your schedule. 
Maybe shifting your workday by half an hour would make a world of difference to your commute, or working East Coast hours would be a lot easier for day care pick-up and drop-off. 
Sponsor Message
Your workplace will often only be as flexible as you 
ask
 them to be, Beacom says. So find how work can work better for you.
Let "good" be "good enough" 
Now that you're back at work, you might notice something surprising: Your job might feel a little easier.
"A lot of parents report that having kids, because it introduces all these new complexities, can make them more disciplined and better at getting things done," says brain researcher 
Darby Saxbe
, author of the upcoming book 
Dad Brain
, about the science of fatherhood.
That doesn't mean your life as a working parent will be a walk in the park. If you're feeling overwhelmed, see when you can let "good" be "good enough."
"My best advice to parents is lower your standards," Saxbe says. "Don't expect you're going to be amazing at everything." There are no raises for picture-perfect baby food or trophies for late-night speed-emailing.
If you absolutely must add more to your plate, be intentional about it, says 
Reshma Saujani
, CEO of Moms First, an organization that advocates for affordable child care and paid leave. What is a need and what is just a gold star on your record? How much pressure is self-imposed, and how much is out of your control?
Life Kit 
The emotional roller coaster of being a new mom
Lastly, cut yourself some slack. Parenting can change the brain and body to better meet the needs of caring for your little one
— and research shows it can take anywhere from 
a few months
 to 
two years
or more for a new parent to feel fully themselves again.
"Respect that this is a transformational time," Saxbe says. "Be patient with yourself and recognize that you may not be 100% for a while."
The digital story was edited by Meghan Keane. The visual editor is CJ Riculan. We'd love to hear from you. Leave us a voicemail at 202-216-9823, or email us at LifeKit@npr.org.
Listen to Life Kit on 
Apple Podcasts
 and 
Spotify
, and sign up for our 
newsletter
. Follow us on Instagram: 
@nprlifekit
.
Life Kit: Life Skills
Life Kit: Parenting
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
More Stories From NPR

              National 
          
Armed man is shot and killed at Mar-a-Lago, Palm Beach Sheriff says

              Economy 
          
They graduate to six figure salaries, and grueling work

              Life Kit 
          
How to be a working parent? Lower your standards : Life Kit

              National 
          
A professional cornhole player and quadruple amputee is arrested for murder

              World 
          
Ex-spy who sold U.S. secrets to Israel says he's sorry, and will run for parliament

              Trump's Terms 
          
The National Mall is a propaganda battlefield for Trump and his critics : Trump's Terms
More Stories From NPR
Life Kit
The right (and wrong) things to say to a grieving friend
Life Kit
Not sure what to get Mom for Mother's Day? Get ideas from our listeners
Life Kit
Could you give up shopping for a year? Try the 'no-buy challenge'
Life Kit
This 5-step financial self-care routine can keep your money on track
Life Kit
Want to lighten your mental load? First, let go of these gender myths
Life Kit
Ready to take on a difficult goal? Here's how a buddy might help
Sponsor Message
Popular on NPR.org
Economy
They graduate to six figure salaries, and grueling work
National
UFO files spanning decades are released by Defense Department
Politics
Trump's Truth Social lays bare narrow obsessions of an extremely online president
Global Health
Why saying hello to strangers can be good for you
Business
With Spirit in liquidation, here's what happens next to its planes
World
Trump says Russia and Ukraine have agreed to his request for a 3-day ceasefire
NPR Editors' Picks
2026 World Cup: North America
How the 1994 World Cup kicked off America's love affair with soccer
Elections
Southern Republicans redistrict after Supreme Court rules, Dems lose big in Virginia
Europe
Moscow marks Victory Day with a Red Square parade under tight security
Elections
National mood is against Republicans, but redistricting could help prop them up
Music
What is a radical? It's the question of M.I.A.'s vexing career
Media
ABC argues Trump administration is trying to chill free speech
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
© 2026 npr
Sponsor Message
Sponsor Message
Become an NPR sponsor
Exclusive benefits
Give a little. Get a lot.
Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts.
Get NPR+
Already have NPR+?
Sign In
Close modal
By clicking “Accept All Cookies” or continuing, you agree to the use of cookies, similar tracking and storage technologies, and information about your device to enhance your viewing, listening and user experience, personalize content, personalize messages from NPR’s sponsors, provide social media features, and analyze NPR’s traffic. This information is shared with social media, sponsorship, analytics, and other vendors or service providers. You may customize which cookies you accept in "Cookie Settings."
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies
Privacy Preference Center
NPR and our service providers and vendors use cookies and similar technologies to collect information. A cookie is a string of characters that can be written to a file on the user's computer or device when the user visits a site, application, platform or service. When you visit a website or use a mobile application, a computer asks your computer or mobile device for permission to store this file on your computer or mobile device and access information from it. Information gathered through cookies may include the date and time of visits and how you are using the website. Note that if you disable or delete cookies, you may lose access to certain features of the NPR Services. 
User ID: 
 4431494a-2e04-47df-92c7-dc66e7f181fd
This User ID will be used as a unique identifier while storing and accessing your preferences for future.
Timestamp: 
 --
Allow All
 Manage Consent Preferences
Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies
Always Active
These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services.
Performance and Analytics Cookies
Performance and Analytics Cookies
These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services.
Functional Cookies
Functional Cookies
These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services.
Targeting and Sponsor Cookies
Targeting and Sponsor Cookies
These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services.
Back Button
Cookie List
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
Reject All
Confirm My Choices