Graduates Reset Ambitions in Pursuit of First Jobs - The New York Times
Skip to content
Skip to site index
Search & Section Navigation
Section Navigation
Search
Economy
Subscribe for $0.50/week
Log in
Saturday, May 9, 2026
Today’s Paper
Subscribe for $0.50/week
Artificial
 Intelligence
A.I. Populism
Apple Settlement
Job Losses
Meta Sued
Vetting A.I. Models
A.I. Spending Record
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Supported by
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Graduates Reset Ambitions in Pursuit of First Jobs
Young people aiming to build careers are entering fields they had not considered to find their footing.
Listen · 7:44 min 
Share full article
603
A dismal job market has turned the spring commencement season into a bruising ordeal for many, including Sadie Parker, who will graduate in June from the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Credit...
Adam Amengual for The New York Times
By 
Sydney Ember
Published April 28, 2026
Updated May 3, 2026
See more of our coverage in your search results.
Encuentra más de nuestra cobertura en los resultados de búsqueda.
Add The New York Times on Google
Agrega The New York Times en Google
Sadie Parker was fretting about finding a job.
Many people she knew were having trouble landing work. She had wanted to join the Foreign Service, but she was worried that federal spending cuts could limit her options. She was petrified that artificial intelligence would wipe out other entry-level jobs.
“I was extremely anxious,” said Ms. Parker, 22, who will graduate in June from the University of California, Santa Barbara, with a double major in political science and economics.
To improve her chances, she broadened her search, applying for positions in consulting and other fields. She spent hours on a cover letter for a job at KPMG, the accounting firm, advising the California state government.
“I was like, wow, this looks so interesting,” she said. “The next day, I got a rejection.”
Recent college graduates are facing 
the most dismal and unpredictable job market
 in years. Employers overall are 
hiring fewer workers
, dimming the prospects in particular for first-time entrants to the labor market. The rise of A.I. and its abilities are intensifying fears that entry-level jobs will disappear forever.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Junior-level postings on the job site Indeed fell 7 percent in 2025 from the previous year, 
according to a report
 the company released last week.
“As a job seeker, you’re having to work a lot harder to land that same job now because the competition has just really stiffened in the last couple years,” said Cory Stahle, an economist at Indeed.
Those forces have transformed the spring graduation season into a bruising ordeal for many of America’s youngest degree holders.
In interviews and in responses to a New York Times survey, some college seniors and recent graduates said they had applied to more than 100 jobs without securing so much as a first-round interview. A number have resorted to tracking their applications using detailed Excel spreadsheets.
There is a swelling collective suspicion that 
A.I. is rejecting applications
 before human recruiters ever lay eyes on them.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
The hunt has frustrated nascent career dreams and forced many job seekers to recalibrate their postgraduation plans. Some are working as servers at pizza joints, as baristas at coffee shops and in other jobs that do not require college degrees. Others have plans to attend graduate school to avoid the labor market altogether. Whereas embarking on a career used to be a goal after college, increasingly it is having any job at all.
“I’m, like, is it me or is it really, like, the market right now?” said Natalia Martinez, 24, a senior at the University of Central Florida. “I just feel like it’s so hard for somebody to take a chance on a college graduate.”
Ms. Martinez said she had applied to 150 jobs since February — “really anything that comes up in my area,” she said, including for positions as a receptionist or medical assistant — but she has not been successful. She spends sleepless nights doom-scrolling for jobs on LinkedIn and Indeed and is preparing for the possibility that she may have to move back in with her parents after graduation.
“I feel like I’m doing everything that I possibly can,” she said. “I just want some kind of path.”
Angst on college campuses about future employment is perennial and escalates during hiring slowdowns, when companies are more reluctant to bring on inexperienced workers. A front-page article in The Times 
in April 1991
, for instance, took note of “traumatized seniors” whose job searches had “become a disheartening struggle of résumés, rejection and uncertainty.”
But fueled by the frenzy around A.I. and public prognostications of job market ruin, the typical jitters have hardened into dread.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
“Students are definitely nervous,” said Sean McGowan, the director of employer relations at Carnegie Mellon University.
College graduates typically do better during economic downturns than workers without degrees. And while there have been dire predictions about A.I.’s effect on employment, the technology 
so far has not led to widespread job losses
.
Still, the challenging job market has revived age-old questions among college students and recent graduates about whether going to college is worth it.
“I thought getting a college degree was the answer to everything,” said Lucy Kinyanjui, 22, a senior at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University. “I feel like we just have to wait it out. I feel like getting my degree now is kind of useless.”
Ms. Kinyanjui, who juggles classes with work as a 
server at Topgolf
, said she was constantly thinking about applying for more lucrative jobs that aligned with a career in health care. But she is concerned that her degree, in liberal studies, will not appeal to potential employers, especially in such a tough job market. She is thinking about getting a master’s degree eventually in the hope that it will make her more employable.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
“I’m afraid of the rejection that I’m going to face,” she said.
Johnathon McCartney, 23, has felt similarly discouraged. A senior at the University of Florida who transferred from Colby College in Maine after his freshman year, Mr. McCartney studied public relations and wanted to get a job in communications. He focused his search on the Louisville, Ky., area so he could live near his girlfriend, but snubs piled up, including from a local P.R. firm.
“I applied for an internship with them and I interviewed, and I didn’t even get that,” he said. “Who is this state-level firm taking for a P.R. internship if not me?”
Mr. McCartney recently accepted a remote job as an immigration services officer with the federal government.
“I just feel fortunate or grateful that this is an opportunity that ended up working out for me,” he said.
For Ms. Parker, the senior at U.C. Santa Barbara, the sense of urgency was growing. None of her applications seemed to be gaining traction with employers. As A.I.’s technology improved, she wondered if she was running out of time to find an entry-level job.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
“I was very much like, OK, I got to make sure I do this now,” she said.
When one of her friends suggested that she apply for a job as a finance associate at a large health technology company, she jumped at the chance even though she did not have experience in finance. She reached out to the company’s recruiters on LinkedIn and set up an informational chat.
Over the course of three months, Ms. Parker had one interview with the company, then another, and another.
“It was kind of a stressful process,” she said.
Three weeks after her third interview, in mid-December, she heard back for the last time.
She had gotten the job.
Young and Looking for Work? We Want to Hear From You.
New York Times economics reporters want to understand how young people are navigating employment. We may want to use your experience in a story, but we would only do so with your permission.
What is your current employment status?
*
Please select one
Employed full time
Employed part time
Freelancing or doing gig work
Looking for work
Not employed and not looking for work
What level of education do you have?
Please select one
High school diploma or less
Trade school certification or associate's degree
Four-year college degree
Graduate degree
How are you feeling about the job market? If you are looking for work, how is it going? If you are working, how was your job search? If you have not started looking for work, how do you think your job search will go?
0 words
How old are you?
Where do you live?
*
Error loading script.
What is your name?
*
What is your email address?
*
I am open to a New York Times journalist contacting me about other reporting projects.
By clicking the submit button, you agree that you have read, understand and accept the
 Reader Submission Terms
 in relation to all of the content and other information you send to us (“Your Content”). If you do not accept these terms, do not submit any content. Of note:
Your Content must not be false, defamatory, misleading or hateful, or infringe any copyright or any other third-party rights or otherwise be unlawful.
We may use the contact details that you provide to verify your identity and answers to the questionnaire, as well as to contact you for further information on this story and future stories.
Submit
Sydney Ember
 covers the U.S. economy for The Times.
A version of this article appears in print on 
May 4, 2026
, Section B, Page 1 of the New York edition with the headline: Graduates Forced to Reset Job Ambitions
. 
Order Reprints
 | 
Today’s Paper
 | 
Subscribe
Read 603 comments
Share full article
603
Related Content
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Sale. Don’t miss out
.
$0.50/week for your 
first 
six months
year.
Subscribe
Site Index
Site Information Navigation
© 
2026
The New York Times Company
NYTCo
Contact Us
Accessibility
Work with us
Advertise
T Brand Studio
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Site Map
Canada
International
Help
Subscriptions